LABELS

Label for comment 1: complaining to them (nr/gov ?) about ticket prices too
Label for comment 2: ticket prices-nr dont run passenger trains
Label for comment 3: ticket prices-nr dont run passenger trains-have nothing to do with ticket prices
Label for comment 4: nr have nothing to do with ticket prices; provide services free--sarcasm?
Label for comment 6: explains how ticket prices set--govt and train companies responsible for directly setting prices; nr-not for profit company --profits go back into railways; railway not transparent; ; some ticket price monet does go to nr
Label for comment 8: Network Rail nothing to do with ticket prices.
Label for comment 9: net work rail ticket prices--train operators do pay nr for using track but nr have absolutely no say in ticket prices/nr funded by govt.; complaining about ticket prices fair enough
Label for comment 10: privatisation -- "demented"
Label for comment 11: arnt track charges possibly linked to/reflected in ticket prices?
Label for comment 12: nr have no influence over ticket prices; complaining to nr
Label for comment 13: current rail system-fractured; not unreasonable to assume the same company responsible for fares and punctuality; bring back br -(public rail -implicit)
Label for comment 14: agrees with nr nnoubt to do with ticket prices
Label for comment 15: ticket prices-- price people off trains
Label for comment 16: clarifying -- 1.1 saying ticket prices more important than delays
Label for comment 17: critical of 1.1/1.3 -- about complaining to nr about ticket prices
Label for comment 18: nr no role in setting ticket prices--note 5/20 comments by this guy making this same point over again
Label for comment 19: nationalisation the answer;  fining -a public body;  since we tax payers own nr-how will this help?
Label for comment 20: fining- a public body;  since we tax payers own nr-how will this help?-agrees; nationalisation-agrees; TOCS not without fault
Label for comment 21: fining -directors ; unlikely though
Label for comment 22: nr is a public body; debts to come onto treasury books in sept.; public company-- itself not the answer to problems; fares not to do with Nr -or private companies, but tax we pay; fining -public body-stupid; problem = more busier railways (hard to recover from disruption)
Label for comment 23: fining-doc directors pay
Label for comment 24: fining-questions the fine-as a 'slap'
Label for comment 25: fining -deliberate route to undermine nr then present: privatisation as solution
Label for comment 26: earlier cuts by thatcher designed to undermine BR and then leaves: privatisation as solution; suspects people doing this now-fining (implicit); memories of railtrack-privatised-not good!
Label for comment 27: memories of railtrack-privatised- disaster
Label for comment 28: not in favour of nationalisation; citing : stafford hospital; nationalised, didnt prevent deaths;   bbc;nationalised, didnt stop savile; implication the NR fine is unfair/misplaced: these organisations have not been fined even though the problems are more serious than late trains
Label for comment 29: questions "deaths" at stafford hospital--; independent report "scotched" Daily Mail scare mongering on this; accuses poster 2.9 of prejudice
Label for comment 30: Fining a public body (who's ability to do a good job is dependent (partly) on how much money they have to do it,) is counter-productive.; how is fine supposed to work?
Label for comment 31: previous commenter 2.9 posts rubbish
Label for comment 33: fares will go up; will pass on to tocs
Label for comment 34: nr a non profit public body
Label for comment 35: nr not for profit; in fact nr a not for dividend public body
Label for comment 36: nr to become officially a public body in sept
Label for comment 37: taxpayer own nr-nr a public company; fining public body- meaninglesss--will need to get back from public
Label for comment 38: nr public body/not for profit
Label for comment 39: agrees: fining public body- meaninglesss--will need to get back from public
Label for comment 40: nr to be public company -office of statistics reclassified; fining -deliberate route to undermine nr then present: privatisation as solution
Label for comment 41: agree-fining -deliberate route to undermine nr then present: privatisation as solution
Label for comment 42: fining- how will this help address congestion; ask nr insider whats going on?
Label for comment 43: TOCS resposnible -run trains/staff-responsible for punctuality
Label for comment 44: NR responsible signalling issues, maintenace/leaves
Label for comment 45: why fine a public body?; sack mangement/withold bonuses etc
Label for comment 46: bonuses- witheld
Label for comment 47: TOCS responsible -  staff shortage-responsible for punctuality
Label for comment 48: TOCS- were they fined? did you get a refund; TOCS responsible -  staff shortage-responsible for punctuality--implicit agree
Label for comment 49: TOCS responsible fro delays sometimes but out of scope for thsi issue
Label for comment 50: SE getting disproportionate public funding; vote buying
Label for comment 51: London getting disproportionate public funding
Label for comment 52: questions London getting disproportionate public funding
Label for comment 53: London getting disproportionate public funding -agrees-- look on web for article
Label for comment 54: SE getting disproportionate public funding
Label for comment 55: director bonuses -jokes gap between bonus and company performance
Label for comment 56: director bonuses-not that bad
Label for comment 57: director bonuses-20% high
Label for comment 58: director bonuses-20% high
Label for comment 60: director bonuses-20% for failure
Label for comment 61: why wifi?; spend money on track/signal improvements; bonuses-  for failure
Label for comment 62: tax as payment model: levy the rail users not tax payers
Label for comment 63: tax as payment model: road driving
Label for comment 64: roads more than self funded by road tax and fuel levies
Label for comment 65: road tax-no such thing; good railservice = less cars= better roads
Label for comment 66: general taxation--taxation for services you dont use; (questions this view)
Label for comment 67: road tax-= vehicle excise duty; good railservice = less cars= better roads
Label for comment 68: taxation for rail -rail carries freight--knock on effect for roads
Label for comment 69: roads maintained by council tax
Label for comment 71: taxation for services you dont use?
Label for comment 72: road tax: no such thing; roads pai for by genera. and local taxation
Label for comment 73: by road tax and fuel levies- big source of income greater than expnse of looking after roas
Label for comment 74: joke--operators dont care
Label for comment 76: private rail companies-pad fares- fail to be on time; tax payer funded company pays fine; ordinary people suffer late trains and pay fine for it; rail system insane
Label for comment 77: wifi-- will speed up journeys-- a distraction to passengers; wont benefit west country --too crowded; wont benefit rest of country-- to crowded; will beneft train companies sand shareholders; network rail will increase charges will hand on to train companies which will increase fares; privatisation
Label for comment 78: wifi on trains-- how can you use it when no room and no seats due to crowding; humour
Label for comment 79: defending s-east--is very crowded and busy
Label for comment 80: nationalise nr--- oh yeah it is
Label for comment 81: nationalise-- whole rail system
Label for comment 82: current system "madness"-; nationalise-- whole rail system-agree
Label for comment 83: joke about definition of on time
Label for comment 84: sarcastic-definition of on time
Label for comment 86: personal-- defending position of job seekers in somerset ontime
Label for comment 87: somerset job centre...
Label for comment 88: job centre job seekers in somerset late due to trains? suggests other commenter is being too tough on potential job candidates, wrt small bit of lateness for interview.
Label for comment 89: punctuality in somerset job centre-- lateness no ecxuse transport ok; appearance awful; people not making effort
Label for comment 90: fining--fine the weather; joke!
Label for comment 91: fining-cut pay senior managers
Label for comment 92: guardian late with the news --bcc early
Label for comment 93: RAIB report into balcombe tunnel closure--; nr sufferred much disruption due to break up of br and failure of railtrack; lost knowledge of infrastructure due to repeated changing of hands which led to changing people, plans, contractors; safety
Label for comment 95: wifi- why need it when have 3g 4g?
Label for comment 96: wifi why need it--tunnels
Label for comment 97: 3g4g signal varied on trains
Label for comment 99: fining--should benefit all not just those who use wifi; spend money on :safety; carriages; for all
Label for comment 100: likes the post on fining-should nenefit all not just those who use wifi; spend money on :safety; carriages; for all

GROUPS

GROUP: Ticket prices: does it make sense to complain to NR?
Label for comment 1 [lindalusardi]: complaining to them (nr/gov ?) about ticket prices too
Label for comment 2 [Cynic24]: ticket prices-nr dont run passenger trains
Label for comment 3 [Cynic24]: ticket prices-nr dont run passenger trains-have nothing to do with ticket prices
Label for comment 4 [lindalusardi]: nr have nothing to do with ticket prices; provide services free--sarcasm?
Label for comment 6 [Craig Axon]: explains how ticket prices set--govt and train companies responsible for directly setting prices; nr-not for profit company --profits go back into railways; railway not transparent; ; some ticket price monet does go to nr
Label for comment 8 [PrimitivePerson]: Network Rail nothing to do with ticket prices.
Label for comment 9 [Cynic24]: net work rail ticket prices--train operators do pay nr for using track but nr have absolutely no say in ticket prices/nr funded by govt.; complaining about ticket prices fair enough
Label for comment 11 [C2H4n]: arn't track charges possibly linked to/reflected in ticket prices?
Label for comment 12 [Cynic24]: nr have no influence over ticket prices; complaining to nr
Label for comment 13 [mathnawi]: current rail system-fractured; not unreasonable to assume the same company responsible for fares and punctuality; bring back br -(public rail -implicit)
Label for comment 14 [simonsays247]: agrees with nr nnoubt to do with ticket prices
Label for comment 16 [ChineseDazza]: clarifying -- 1.1 saying ticket prices more important than delays
Label for comment 17 [Orthus]: critical of 1.1/1.3 -- about complaining to nr about ticket prices
Label for comment 18 [Cynic24]: nr no role in setting ticket prices--note 5/20 comments by this guy making this same point over again
Label for comment 33 [C2H4n]: fares will go up; will pass on to tocs;  
Label for comment 77 [viper61]: wifi-- will speed up journeys-- a distraction to passengers; wont benefit west country --too crowded; wont benefit rest of country-- to crowded; will benefit train companies sand shareholders; network rail will increase charges will hand on to train companies which will increase fares.; privatisation: strong negative sentiment towards this : privatised essential industries =  privateering corporations; "Privateer = Government authorised PIRATE" ;  

GROUP: ticket prices too high
Label for comment 1 [lindalusardi]: complaining to them (nr/gov ?) about ticket prices too
Label for comment 15 [Snapshackle]: ticket prices-- price people off trains;  

GROUP:  nationalization the answer vs privatisation; negative views about privatisation; an exception doesn't think nationalisation is the answer; madness of current system 
Label for comment 20 [Deviant]:  ("agrees 100%" with comment 19 so:) fining- a public body;  since we tax payers own nr-how will this help?-agrees; nationalisation-agrees; Adds that the TOCS not without fault
Label for comment 26 [Speenhamland]: earlier cuts by thatcher designed to undermine BR and then leaves: privatisation as solution; suspects people doing this now-fining (implicit); memories of railtrack privatised- not good!
Label for comment 27 [Cynic24]: memories of railtrack privatised- disaster
Label for comment 28 [printerink]: not in favour of nationalisation; citing : stafford hospital; nationalised, didnt prevent deaths;   bbc; nationalised, didnt stop savile; implication the NR fine is unfair/misplaced: these organisations have not been fined even though the problems are more serious than late trains
Label for comment 29 [C2H4n]: questions "deaths" at stafford hospital--; independent report "scotched" the Daily Mail scare mongering on this;  
Label for comment 80 [Innowaybored]: nationalise nr--- oh yeah it is
Label for comment 81 [Independentview]: nationalise-- whole rail system;  
Label for comment 77 [viper61]: wifi-- will speed up journeys-- a distraction to passengers; wont benefit west country --too crowded; wont benefit rest of country-- to crowded; will benefit train companies sand shareholders; network rail will increase charges will hand on to train companies which will increase fares.; privatisation: strong negative sentiment towards this : privatised essential industries =  privateering corporations; "Privateer = Government authorised PIRATE" ;  

SUBGROUP: madness of system -fractured/mix of private & public
Label for comment 10 [Socialismaintdead]: shows that privatisation (referring to current system) -- "demented"
Label for comment 13 [mathnawi]: current rail system-fractured; not unreasonable to assume the same company responsible for fares and punctuality; bring back br -(public rail -implicit)
Label for comment 19 [KeithClan]: nationalisation the answer;  fining -a public body;  since we tax payers own nr-how will this help?; our railways-"dysfunctional"
Label for comment 76 [alanomaly]: private rail companies-pad fares- fail to be on time; tax payer funded company pays fine; ordinary people suffer late trains and pay fine for it; rail system insane
Label for comment 82 [citizenJA]: current system "madness"-; nationalise-- whole rail system-agree
Label for comment 93 [TRT1968]: RAIB report into balcombe tunnel closure--; nr sufferred much disruption due to break up of br and failure of railtrack; lost knowledge of infrastructure due to repeated changing of hands which led to changing people, plans, contractors; safety

GROUP: Fining -- many question how fining a public body works?  its counter-productive; some suggest  the fine is a route to undermine current system and present privatisation as solution
 Label for comment 19 [KeithClan]: nationalisation the answer;  fining -a public body;  since we tax payers own nr-how will this help?; our railways-"dysfunctional"
Label for comment 20 [Deviant]:  ("agrees 100%" with comment 19 so:) fining- a public body;  since we tax payers own nr-how will this help?-agrees; nationalisation-agrees; Adds that the TOCS not without fault
Label for comment 22 [thomo21]: nr is a public body; debts to come onto treasury books in sept.; public company-- itself not the answer to problems; fares not to do with Nr -or private companies, but tax we pay; fining -public body-stupid; problem = more busier railways (hard to recover from disruption)
Label for comment 30 [Bluestone]: Fining a public body (who's ability to do a good job is dependent (partly) on how much money they have to do it,) is counter-productive.; how is fine supposed to work?
Label for comment 39 [C2H4n]: agrees: fining public body- meaninglesss--will need to get back from public
Label for comment 42 [Agir]: fining- how will this help address congestion ?; ask nr insider whats going on?
Label for comment 45 [MIAsin]: why fine a public body?; sack mangement/withold bonuses etc

SUBGROUP:   fining-- 4 commenters suggested there was a deliberate plan to undermine the publicly owned Nr, paving the way for privatization.  
Label for comment 25 [Tim Eslip]: fining -deliberate route to undermine nr then present: privatisation as solution
Label for comment 26 [Speenhamland]: earlier cuts by thatcher designed to undermine BR and then leaves: privatisation as solution; suspects people doing this now-fining (implicit); memories of railtrack-privatised-not good!
Label for comment 40 [Cynic24]: nr to be public company -office of statistics reclassified; fining -deliberate route to undermine nr then present: privatisation as solution
Label for comment 41 [C2H4n]: agree-fining -deliberate route to undermine nr then present: privatisation as solution

GROUP: fining --fine the NR management- a better alternative; discussion of director bonuses (for failure)
Label for comment 21 [hosede88]: fining -directors  ; unlikely thoug
Label for comment 23 [KallisteHill]: fining-doc directors pay
Label for comment 24 [lierbag]: fining-questions the fine-as a 'slap'
Label for comment 45 [MIAsin]: why fine a public body?; sack mangement/withold bonuses etc
Label for comment 46 [ElChisellero]: bonuses- witheld
Label for comment 91 [jembal]: fining-cut pay senior managers

SUBGROUP: later on--discussion about director bonuses, some noting they are given for "failure" 
Label for comment 55 [RousselBland]: director bonuses -jokes gap between bonus and company performance
Label for comment 56 [Skathi]: director bonuses-not that bad
Label for comment 57 [UncleMartin]: director bonuses-20% high
Label for comment 58 [Streatham]: director bonuses-20% high
Label for comment 60 [fernandopartridge87]: director bonuses-20% for failure
Label for comment 61 [dunless]: why wifi?; spend money on track/signal improvements; bonuses-  for failure

GROUP: discussion on levying those who use the rail system, not the tax payers; broadened into a more general discussion about taxation; should people pay for services they don't use. Opinion was divided.; Also an argument about whether taxes on cars and fuel were paying for roads
Label for comment 62 [Peter Fisher]: tax as payment model: levy the rail users not tax payers
Label for comment 63 [Streatham]: tax as payment model: road driving
Label for comment 64 [GrandMoffTanner]: roads more than self funded by road tax and fuel levies
Label for comment 65 [ArmchairPundit]: road tax-no such thing; good railservice = less cars= better roads
Label for comment 66 [Trilobyte]: general taxation--taxation for services you dont use ; (questions this view)
Label for comment 67 [GrandMoffTanner]: road tax-= vehicle excise duty; good railservice = less cars= better roads
Label for comment 68 [ricmondo]: taxation for rail -rail carries freight--knock on effect for roads
Label for comment 69 [jackosullivan]: roads maintained by council tax
Label for comment 71 [nocausetoaddopt]: taxation for services you dont use?
Label for comment 72 [SirRammickHobbs]: road tax: no such thing; roads pai for by genera. and local taxation
Label for comment 73 [GrandMoffTanner]: by road tax and fuel levies- big source of income greater than expense of looking after roads

GROUP: NR--some discussion/clarification about the status of the company as a not for profit publicly owned body.   
Label for comment 34 [Cynic24]: nr a non profit public body
Label for comment 35 [C2H4n]: nr not for profit; in fact nr a not for dividend public body
Label for comment 36 [Cynic24]: nr to become officially a public body in sept
Label for comment 37 [LabourStoleMyCash]: taxpayer own nr-nr a public company; fining public body- meaninglesss--will need to get back from public
Label for comment 38 [C2H4n]: nr public body/not for profit
Label for comment 40 [Cynic24]: nr to be public company -office of statistics reclassified; fining -deliberate route to undermine nr then present: privatisation as solution

GROUP: TOC's role in the delays; some suggest they should be fined
Label for comment 20 [Deviant]:  ("agrees 100%" with comment 19 so:) fining- a public body;  since we tax payers own nr-how will this help?-agrees; nationalisation-agrees; Adds that the TOCS not without fault
Label for comment 43 [MIAsin]: TOCS responsible -run trains/staff-responsible for punctuality
Label for comment 44 [FellOffMeChair]: NR responsible signalling issues, maintenance/leaves
Label for comment 47 [Snapshackle]: TOCS responsible -  staff shortage-responsible for punctuality
Label for comment 49 [FellOffMeChair]: (replies to 47)TOCS responsible for delays sometimes but out of scope for this issue
Label for comment 74 [strawwdog]: joke--operators dont care
Label for comment 76 [alanomaly]: private rail companies-pad fares- fail to be on time; tax payer funded company pays fine; ordinary people suffer late trains and pay fine for it; rail system insane
Label for comment 48 [MIAsin]: TOCS- were they fined? did you get a refund; TOCS responsible -  staff shortage-responsible for punctuality--implicit agree

GROUP: SE favoured in terms of public funding it receives (from current government)
Label for comment 50 [showmaster]: SE getting disproportionate public funding; vote buying
Label for comment 51 [Cynic24]: London getting disproportionate public funding
Label for comment 52 [ricmondo]: questions London getting disproportionate public funding
Label for comment 53 [Cynic24]: London getting disproportionate public funding -agrees-- look on web for article
Label for comment 54 [Orthus]: SE getting disproportionate public funding
Label for comment 77 [viper61]: wifi-- will speed up journeys-- a distraction to passengers; wifi--how will benefit west country/rest of country outside of the "pampered SE"; wont benefit west country --too crowded; wont benefit rest of country-- too crowded; will benefit train companies sand shareholders; network rail will increase charges will hand on to train companies which will increase fares.; privatisation: strong negative sentiment towards this : privatised essential industries =  privateering corporations; "Privateer = Government authorised PIRATE" 
Label for comment 79 [ricmondo]: defending s-east--is very crowded and busy

GROUP: allocation of fine resources - debate need for wifi , also consider it vs other spending areas
Label for comment 61 [dunless]: why wifi?; spend money on track/signal improvements; bonuses-  for failure
Label for comment 95 [MisterSinge]: wifi- why need it when have 3g 4g?
Label for comment 96 [BetterandBetter]: wifi why need it--tunnels
Label for comment 97 [Danno81]: 3g4g signal varied on trains
Label for comment 77 [viper61]: wifi-- will speed up journeys-- a distraction to passengers; wifi--how will benefit west country/rest of country outside of the "pampered SE"; wont benefit west country --too crowded; wont benefit rest of country-- too crowded; will benefit train companies sand shareholders; network rail will increase charges will hand on to train companies which will increase fares.; privatisation: strong negative sentiment towards this : privatised essential industries =  privateering corporations; "Privateer = Government authorised PIRATE" 
Label for comment 78 [bachemobile]: wifi on trains-- how can you use it when no room and no seats due to crowding; humour
Label for comment 99 [wombatman]: fining--should benefit all not just those who use wifi; spend money on :safety; carriages; for all
Label for comment 100 [citizenJA]: likes the post on fining-should benefit all not just those who use wifi; spend money on :safety; carriages; for all

GROUP: miscellaneous
Label for comment 31 [Orthus]: previous commenter 2.9 posts rubbish
Label for comment 92 [RalphTheStaller]: guardian late with the news --bcc early
Label for comment 90 [gristsparger]: fining--fine the weather; joke!
Label for comment 83 [fry10d]: joke about definition of on time

SUBGROUP: irrelevant topic about a person's business and job seekers in somerset and time keeping (due to travel)
Label for comment 84 [GeoffTr]: sarcastic-definition of on time
Label for comment 86 [citizenJA]: personal-- defending position of job seekers in somerset on time
Label for comment 87 [GeoffTr]: somerset job centre...
Label for comment 88 [citizenJA]: job centre job seekers in somerset late due to trains? suggests other commenter is being too tough on potential job candidates, wrt small bit of lateness for interview.
Label for comment 89 [GeoffTr]: punctuality in somerset job centre-- lateness no excuse transport ok; appearance awful; people not making effort

UNCONSTRAINED SUMMARY

There was an initial discussion about whether network rail (NR) had influence on train ticket prices.  Some, and one in particular, said that NR had no influence.  Some of these went on to explain it was the government and train operator companies that set prices. Others suggested that NR costs would be passed onto train operator companies (TOCs).  One countered there was still no point complaining about NR as they had no direct role in setting prices.  Later on some suggested that the TOCs had a role in delays, citing eg staffing issues.

There were a number of comments on the poor state of the current railway system, using adjectives such as "madness, fractured, terrible, dysfunctional". The former nationalised British Rail was broken up into different companies and the railways were now a mix of public and private.   Many suggested that nationalization of the rail system was the solution to the problems.  An exception countered that nationalization did not prevent serious problems at the BBC and Staffordshire Hospital. Many questionned how fining a public company would work when the fine would be paid for by the taxpayers, who both pay for and use the company. Some suggested there was a deliberate plan to undermine the publicly owned NR, paving the way for privatization. Some suggested fining the NR management would be more useful.  Later, some noted that director bonuses were high.   

There was discussion about the status of NR as a publicly owned company. It was described e.g. as a non profit making public body/company; a not for dividend public body and some noted it was to be reclassified as a public company in September.  

There was discussion about regional bias in public funding of the railways: London and the South East receiving disproportionate public funding. One added that this is because the SE is very crowded and busy.

There was also discussion about the decision to spend the fine on a wifi upgrade: some said fining should benefit all who use the railways.  Alternative areas for spending included e.g.  safety, track and signal improvements, carriages.  A couple added that it would be difficult to use wifi due to crowding.

CONSTRAINED SUMMARY

Comments initially discussed whether Network Rail (NR) could influence ticket prices. Some insisted NR had no influence, it was the government and train operator companies (TOCs) that set prices. Others suggested that NR costs would be passed onto TOCs. Later, others suggested that TOCs had a role in delays, citing eg staffing issues.

Many commented on the poor state of the system, it was eg "fractured, terrible, dysfunctional".  The former nationalised system was broken up into different companies and the railways were now a poor mix of public and private.  A few clarified the status of NR as a not for profit, public company. Many proposed full nationalization as the solution to problems. One countered that nationalization had not prevented serious problems at the BBC and a hospital. Many questionned fining a public company, when the fine would be paid by taxpayers, who fund and use the service. Some suggested there was a deliberate plan to undermine NR, paving the way for privatization. Some suggested fining the management instead.  Later, some said director bonuses were high.   

There was discussion about regional bias in public funding of the railways, London and the SE receiving disproportionate funds.  One reasoned the SE is very crowded and busy.

Many comments discussed the decision to spend the fine on wifi. Some said fining should benefit all rail users. Alternative suggestions included spending on carriages, safety and track.  Two said crowding made wifi difficult to use.

Some discussed road taxation and direct taxation for rail.

BACK LINKING

Comments initially discussed whether Network Rail (NR) could influence ticket prices.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Ticket prices: does it make sense to complain to NR?

Some insisted NR had no influence, it was the government and train operator companies (TOCs) that set prices.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Ticket prices: does it make sense to complain to NR?

Others suggested that NR costs would be passed onto TOCs.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Ticket prices: does it make sense to complain to NR?

Later, others suggested that TOCs had a role in delays, citing eg staffing issues.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: TOC's role in the delays; some suggest they should be fined

Many commented on the poor state of the system, it was eg "fractured, terrible, dysfunctional".
(Sub)GroupNames:
- SUBGROUP: madness of system -fractured/mix of private & public

The former nationalised system was broken up into different companies and the railways were now a poor mix of public and private.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP:  nationalization the answer vs privatisation; negative views about privatisation; an exception doesn't think nationalisation is the answer; madness of current system
- SUBGROUP: madness of system -fractured/mix of private & public

A few clarified the status of NR as a not for profit, public company.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: NR--some discussion/clarification about the status of the company as a not for profit publicly owned body.

Many proposed full nationalization as the solution to problems.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP:  nationalization the answer vs privatisation; negative views about privatisation; an exception doesn't think nationalisation is the answer; madness of current system
- SUBGROUP: madness of system -fractured/mix of private & public

One countered that nationalization had not prevented serious problems at the BBC and a hospital.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP:  nationalization the answer vs privatisation; negative views about privatisation; an exception doesn't think nationalisation is the answer; madness of current system

Many questionned fining a public company, when the fine would be paid by taxpayers, who fund and use the service.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Fining -- many question how fining a public body works?  its counter-productive; some suggest  the fine is a route to undermine current system and present privatisation as solution

Some suggested there was a deliberate plan to undermine NR, paving the way for privatization.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- SUBGROUP: fining-- 4 commenters suggested there was a deliberate plan to undermine the publicly owned Nr, paving the way for privatization.

Some suggested fining the management instead.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: fining --fine the NR management- a better alternative; discussion of director bonuses (for failure)

Later, some said director bonuses were high.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- SUBGROUP: later on--discussion about director bonuses, some noting they are given for

There was discussion about regional bias in public funding of the railways, London and the SE receiving disproportionate funds.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: SE favoured in terms of public funding it receives (from current government)

One reasoned the SE is very crowded and busy.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: SE favoured in terms of public funding it receives (from current government)

Many comments discussed the decision to spend the fine on wifi.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: allocation of fine resources - debate need for wifi , also consider it vs other spending areas

Some said fining should benefit all rail users.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: allocation of fine resources - debate need for wifi , also consider it vs other spending areas

Alternative suggestions included spending on carriages, safety and track.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: allocation of fine resources - debate need for wifi , also consider it vs other spending areas

Two said crowding made wifi difficult to use.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: allocation of fine resources - debate need for wifi , also consider it vs other spending areas

Some discussed road taxation and direct taxation for rail.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: discussion on levying those who use the rail system, not the tax payers
