LABELS

Label for comment 1: Cons fracking: doesn't agree with politics who reduced funding  to environmental agency and also the ability for monitoring fracking wells, example, water contamination in America due to careless disposal of the fracking chemicals used.
Label for comment 2: He doesn't Agee with commenter 1: not true.
Label for comment 3: Suggestion: he posts an article that talk about a drilling operation that caused decease to a Young mother due to gas emission.
Label for comment 4: Cons Fracking: suggests to read and article over stop fracking and various risks for people health specially for the ones who are living closer.
Label for comment 5: irrelevant:
Label for comment 6: irrelevant:
Label for comment 7: irrelevant:
Label for comment 8: cons fracking: he suggest to read an article over birth anomalies near fracking sites, and a big petroleum company ,friend of Bush, achieved to block air pollution study and didn't want an industry backed report.
Label for comment 9: fracking has got risks: do not stop or prevent the exploitation of new resouces and ensuring that proper regulations must be done to make this process safely.
Label for comment 10: cons fracking and politics: wrecking the enviroment is politic matter, left and right together, they dolise the same growth totem.
Label for comment 11: enviroment and politics: parties don't care of enviroment, NRW doen't have an ecologist on its commitee.
Label for comment 12: fracking risks and issues: a rich penson complained because a company started fracking to find water close to his house, so that caused noise and truck traffic, the person sued the company.
Label for comment 13: cons fracking: people don't want fracking close to their houses.
Label for comment 14: cons fracking: fracking is not good for the proprieties and people who lives next to it, it needs to sue and hire lawsuits to manage the situation.
Label for comment 15: irrelevant:
Label for comment 16: misunderstanding between water fracking company and oil fracking company:
Label for comment 17: fracking for water is dangerous as well:
Label for comment 18: fracking for water: exaple of fracking for water on a farm, 84m no risk, but cons for deepest and dangerous fracking.
Label for comment 19: pro fracking: it is a process that should be done properly, methane is not toxic, needs facts.
Label for comment 20: cons fraking: credibility of pro fraxking should be proved with real evidences.
Label for comment 21: fracking alarmism: methane is not dangerous as the BBC interview said, no poisoning and explosion, fracking ia maybe dangerous for other reasons.
Label for comment 22: cons fracking: fracking fluid are dangerous, it is estimates that 25 75% of this doesn't return to surface, so it contaminetes the subsoil, industry can not control and do it safely.
Label for comment 23: Fracking for water: water well can be contaminated by many things,waste water, a bad septic tank, filtered etc, so fracking for water has got other risks.
Label for comment 24: Fracking  risks needs evidence: there no evidence that fracking is dangerous, needs a test side.
Label for comment 25: Cons fracking: chemicals used for fracking methane are toxic
Label for comment 26: Cons fracking: methane is a pollutant gas, it raises temperature.
Label for comment 27: Pro fracking: sarcastic about the danger of methane gas.
Label for comment 28: Irrelevant;
Label for comment 29: Pro fracking: methane is not toxic, not so dangerous, emotive matter.
Label for comment 30: Cons fracking: methane is pollutant gas.
Label for comment 31: Irrelevant:
Label for comment 32: Cons fracking: fracking is dangerous The process produces huge amounts of waste water that contains, among other things, low-level naturally-occurring radiation.
Label for comment 33: Irrelevant:
Label for comment 34: Irrelevant:
Label for comment 35: Irrelevant:
Label for comment 36: Cons fracking: the wells pass through the aquifers to access the shale, aquifers will contaminated by cement, migrating gases and fracking fluids.
Label for comment 37: Fracking is not dangerous: he doubts the fracking fluids doesn't make its way up to the water table.
Label for comment 38: Cons fracking: Les than 40% of the deadly chemically contami water is retrieved from each well.
Label for comment 39: Cons fracking:suggests an article about contaminated pathways from hydraulically fractured shale to aquifers.
Label for comment 40: Irrelevant:
Label for comment 41: Irrelevant:
Label for comment 42: Irrelevant:already posted.
Label for comment 43: Pro fracking: if all individual activities present risks,as tunnelling, building foundations, road, rails ext, so fracking wells are manageable as well.
Label for comment 44: irrelevant:
Label for comment 45: cons fracking: Fracking fliuds are only partly removed from wells so they are dangerous for animals, birds, and when chemicals remain in the surface, after being dried, they are spreaded about wind contaminating everything it came into contact with, on the underground they caused earthquakes.
Label for comment 46: irrelevant:
Label for comment 47: cons fracking: fracking fluid is dangerous as the poisonous fluids leaching out of mines polluting rivers.
Label for comment 48: cons fracking: The fluid contains chemicals including toxic metals At these high pressures toxins can readily rise up enlongated fissures to contaminate aquifers.
Label for comment 49: fracking: explenation of fracking process, leaks can happen.
Label for comment 50: cons fracking: shale gas is a false solution, We do not need new sources of CO2.
Label for comment 51: fracking: pollution and co2 is not a big problem
Label for comment 52: irrelevant:
Label for comment 53: irrelevant:
Label for comment 54: irrelevant:
Label for comment 55: pro fracking: he think it's possible to frack safely.
Label for comment 56: fracking and CO2: the enhance of co2 is a consequence of fracking and using shale gas, so it is dangerous for the enviroment.
Label for comment 57: pro fracking and shale gas: there's no enhance of temperatures.
Label for comment 58: irrelevant:
Label for comment 59: fracking and raising temperatures: that is happening in the poles, glaciers melting.
Label for comment 60: irrelevant:
Label for comment 61: irrelevant:
Label for comment 62: he doen't agree with the article: boring materials,most readers can't absorb it.
Label for comment 63: fracking: there is the need to have more reporting of rational risk by professional like BGS, And hope the U.K. cuts CO2 emissions, retiring aging fleet of 60',70'.
Label for comment 64: cons fracking and politics: politics are taking advantage of fracking, it is a tax issue.
Label for comment 65: CONS fracking: U.S. Is closing coal fired station ,passing on fracking, that bad for the enviroment.
Label for comment 66: irrelevant:
Label for comment 67: irrelevant:
Label for comment 68: cons fracking and renewable: renewable energy is the solution, fossil fuel tax must be invested in renewables.
Label for comment 69: irrelevant:
Label for comment 70: pro fracking: the U.S. became self-sufficient with fracking, they made fortunes.
Label for comment 71: fracking: supply and demand, there's more demand than supply, so there the need of fracking gas in U.K., would be expensive to buy gas from other country.
Label for comment 72: irrelevant:
Label for comment 73: pro fracking: fracking gas makes money for the State.
Label for comment 74: cons fracking and renewable: Germany is taxing fossil fuel to invenst in clean energy.
Label for comment 75: irrelevant:
Label for comment 76: cons fracking:  Fracking in the States has caused a huge fall in their energy costs and has regenerated their stagnant economy.
Label for comment 77: Irrelevant:
Label for comment 78: irrelevant:
Label for comment 79: cons fracking: Gazprom is taking power, controlling the market.
Label for comment 80: cons fracking and renewable: We need more investment in renewables.
Label for comment 81: irrelevant:
Label for comment 82: cons fracking: fracking is a ponzi schemes and the economy do not work.
Label for comment 83: irrelevant:
Label for comment 84: cons fracking: fracking is a ponzi scheme, it will leave pollution and industrialisation.
Label for comment 85: irrelevant:
Label for comment 86: cons fracking: ponzi scheme, a bad investiment that could cause many risks and no money.
Label for comment 87: pro fracking: invensting in renewable will cost more than fracking.
Label for comment 88: pro fracking: fracking and natural gas market makes money.
Label for comment 89: pro fracking: europe is addicted to coal and russian gas, the U.S has decreased CO2 more than any other industrialised nation AND boosted its economy, all thanks to shale gas.
Label for comment 90: Cons fracking: we must to aware of fracking and the risk to contaminete aquifer.
Label for comment 91: pro fracking: Methane is not a risk during the fracking, and the water gets treated before being drank.
Label for comment 92: irrelevant:
Label for comment 93: cons fracking: water can't be treated and aquifer can be polluted.
Label for comment 94: pro fracking: fracking is a safe process, natural gas as methane is already present in aquifer and wells, so its just to be surveyed.
Label for comment 95: cons fracking: pollution or chamicals can't be removed from drinking water.
Label for comment 96: cons fracking: there are may chemicals, radioactive waste and drilling cuttings that are dangerous for acquifers and they are hided by public scrutiny.
Label for comment 97: pro fracking: All chemicals must be declared to and then licensed by the environmental agency.
Label for comment 98: cons fracking: the list of chemicals, but what they don't do is list the quantities.
Label for comment 99: irrelevant:
Label for comment 100: fracking: Obama said that in the medium term, natural gas, at least, it not only can provide safe, cheap power, but it can also help reduce our carbon emissions.
Label for comment 101: irrelevant:

GROUPS

GROUP: 1 (40 commenters) cons fracking:
Label for comment 1 [madmonty]: Cons fracking: doesn't agree with politics who reduced funding  to environmental agency and also the ability for monitoring fracking wells, example, water contamination in America due to careless disposal of the fracking chemicals used.
Label for comment 3 [JBowers]: Suggestion: he posts an article that talk about a drilling operation that caused decease to a Young mother due to gas emission.
Label for comment 4 [JBowers]: Cons Fracking: suggests to read and article over stop fracking and various risks for people health specially for the ones who are living closer.
Label for comment 8 [JBowers]: cons fracking: he suggest to read an article over birth anomalies near fracking sites, and a big petroleum company ,friend of Bush, achieved to block air pollution study and didn't want an industry backed report.
Label for comment 9 [FredNacker]: fracking has got risks: do not stop or prevent the exploitation of new resouces and ensuring that proper regulations must be done to make this process safely.
Label for comment 10 [Gigoachef]: cons fracking and politics: wrecking the enviroment is politic matter, left and right together, they dolise the same growth totem.
Label for comment 12 [Fernando Leanme]: fracking risks and issues: a rich penson complained because a company started fracking to find water close to his house, so that caused noise and truck traffic, the person sued the company.
Label for comment 13 [JBowers]: cons fracking: people don't want fracking close to their houses.
Label for comment 14 [Fernando Leanme]: cons fracking: fracking is not good for the proprieties and people who lives next to it, it needs to sue and hire lawsuits to manage the situation.
Label for comment 20 [semyorka]: cons fraking: credibility of pro fraxking should be proved with real evidences.
Label for comment 22 [Helen Chuntso]: cons fracking: fracking fluid are dangerous, it is estimates that 25 75% of this doesn't return to surface, so it contaminetes the subsoil, industry can not control and do it safely.
Label for comment 23 [oakwood]: Fracking for water: water well can be contaminated by many things,waste water, a bad septic tank, filtered etc, so fracking for water has got other risks.
Label for comment 24 [Bangorstu]: Fracking risks needs evidence: there no evidence that fracking is dangerous, needs a test side.
Label for comment 25 [moderatesocial]: Cons fracking: chemicals used for fracking methane are toxic
Label for comment 26 [JBowers]: Cons fracking: methane is a pollutant gas, it raises temperature.
Label for comment 30 [JBowers]: Cons fracking: methane is pollutant gas.
Label for comment 32 [SMOGBAD]: Cons fracking: fracking is dangerous The process produces huge amounts of waste water that contains, among other things, low-level naturally-occurring radiation.
Label for comment 38 [Boodicca]: Cons fracking: Les than 40% of the deadly chemically contami water is retrieved from each well.
Label for comment 39 [JBowers]: Cons fracking:suggests an article about contaminated pathways from hydraulically fractured shale to aquifers.
Label for comment 45 [itchyvet]: cons fracking: Fracking fliuds are only partly removed from wells so they are dangerous for animals, birds, and when chemicals remain in the surface, after being dried, they are spreaded about wind contaminating everything it came into contact with, on the underground they caused earthquakes.
Label for comment 46 [Fumnx9vfmnx]: irrelevant:
Label for comment 47 [FredNacker]: cons fracking: fracking fluid is dangerous as the poisonous fluids leaching out of mines polluting rivers.
Label for comment 48 [AfterOil]: cons fracking: The fluid contains chemicals including toxic metals At these high pressures toxins can readily rise up enlongated fissures to contaminate aquifers.
Label for comment 50 [semyorka]: cons fracking: shale gas is a false solution, We do not need new sources of CO2.
Label for comment 56 [buddingBuddha]: cons fracking and CO2: the enhance of co2 is a consequence of fracking and using shale gas, so it is dangerous for the enviroment.
Label for comment 59 [Fernando Leanme]: fracking and raising temperatures: that is happening in the poles, glaciers melting.
Label for comment 63 [jsw2011]: cons fracking: there is the need to have more reporting of rational risk by professional like BGS, And hope the U.K. cuts CO2 emissions, retiring aging fleet of 60',70'.
Label for comment 64 [ratherbered]: cons fracking and politics: politics are taking advantage of fracking, it is a tax issue.
Label for comment 76 [FredNacker]: cons fracking:  Fracking in the States has caused a huge fall in their energy costs and has regenerated their stagnant economy.
Label for comment 79 [Stunning]: cons fracking: Gazprom is taking power, controlling the market.
Label for comment 65 [jsw2011]: CONS fracking: U.S. Is closing coal fired station ,passing on fracking, that bad for the enviroment.
Label for comment 82 [JBowers]: cons fracking: fracking is a ponzi schemes and the economy do not work.
Label for comment 84 [NorthernGeneration]: cons fracking: fracking is a ponzi scheme, it will leave pollution and industrialisation.
Label for comment 90 [ID9876]: Cons fracking: we must to aware of fracking and the risk to contaminete aquifer.
Label for comment 93 [JBowers]: cons fracking: water can't be treated and aquifer can be polluted.
Label for comment 86 [JBowers]: cons fracking: ponzi scheme, a bad investiment that could cause many risks and no money.
Label for comment 95 [NorthernGeneration]: cons fracking: pollution or chamicals can't be removed from drinking water.
Label for comment 96 [Helen Chuntso]: cons fracking: there are may chemicals, radioactive waste and drilling cuttings that are dangerous for acquifers and they are hided by public scrutiny.
Label for comment 98 [JBowers]: cons fracking: the list of chemicals, but what they don't do is list the quantities.

SUBGROUP: ( 2 commenters)fracking for water:
Label for comment 17 [JBowers]: fracking for water is dangerous as well:
Label for comment 18 [Beki Adam]: fracking for water: exaple of fracking for water on a farm, 84m no risk, but cons for deepest and dangerous fracking.

GROUP: 2(22 commenters) pro fracking:
Label for comment 19 [Bangorstu]: pro fracking: it is a process that should be done properly, methane is not toxic, needs facts.
Label for comment 21 [Jacksavage]: pro fracking: methane is not dangerous as the BBC interview said, no poisoning and explosion, fracking ia maybe dangerous for other reasons.
Label for comment 27 [StevenJ1957]: Pro fracking: sarcastic about the danger of methane gas.
Label for comment 29 [Bangorstu]: Pro fracking: methane is not toxic, not so dangerous, emotive matter.
Label for comment 37 [demagogue8]: Fracking is not dangerous: he doubts the fracking fluids doesn't make its way up to the water table.
Label for comment 43 [oakwood]: Pro fracking: if all individual activities present risks,as tunnelling, building foundations, road, rails ext, so fracking wells are manageable as well.
Label for comment 49 [Fernando Leanme]: pro fracking: explenation of fracking process, leaks can happen.
Label for comment 51 [oakwood]: pro fracking: pollution and co2 is not a big problem
Label for comment 55 [Bangorstu]: pro fracking: he think it's possible to frack safely.
Label for comment 57 [FredNacker]: pro fracking and shale gas: there's no enhance of temperatures.
Label for comment 70 [Bangorstu]: pro fracking: the U.S. became self-sufficient with fracking, they made fortunes.
Label for comment 71 [Walsunda]: pro fracking: supply and demand, there's more demand than supply, so there the need of fracking gas in U.K., would be expensive to buy gas from other country.
Label for comment 72 [Walsunda]: irrelevant:
Label for comment 73 [ColinMay]: pro fracking: fracking gas makes money for the State.
Label for comment 87 [PatLogan]: pro fracking: invensting in renewable will cost more than fracking.
Label for comment 88 [Fernando Leanme]: pro fracking: fracking and natural gas market makes money.
Label for comment 89 [Stunning]: pro fracking: europe is addicted to coal and russian gas, the U.S has decreased CO2 more than any other industrialised nation AND boosted its economy, all thanks to shale gas.
Label for comment 91 [demagogue8]: pro fracking: Methane is not a risk during the fracking, and the water gets treated before being drank.
Label for comment 94 [Geologybob]: pro fracking: fracking is a safe process, natural gas as methane is already present in aquifer and wells, so its just to be surveyed.
Label for comment 97 [demagogue8]: pro fracking: All chemicals must be declared to and then licensed by the environmental agency.
Label for comment 100 [Fumnx9vfmnx]: pro fracking: Obama said that in the medium term, natural gas, at least, it not only can provide safe, cheap power, but it can also help reduce our carbon emissions.

GROUP: 3( 3 commenters)cons fracking and renewable:
Label for comment 68 [Helen Chuntso]: cons fracking and renewable: renewable energy is the solution, fossil fuel tax must be invested in renewables.
Label for comment 74 [StevenJ1957]: cons fracking and renewable: Germany is taxing fossil fuel to invenst in clean energy.
Label for comment 80 [ratherbered]: cons fracking and renewable: We need more investment in renewables.

UNCONSTRAINED SUMMARY

The article talks about fracking and all risks that this poses for aquifers and wells. The commenters can be divided into two main groups, those against fracking and those who support it. The majority are against it and think that it is harmful for the environment and for human health because there are a lack of safety measures in place and a leak could lead to the ground water becoming polluted. They emphasise the danger of the fracking fluids used for the extraction of gas and the possible leak of radioactive material which in case of a leak would not be able to be completely cleared from the surface and so would remain in the ground water and pollute them long term. Quite a large part of the commenters suggest stopping fracking altogether and investing in renewable energy. A smaller number see fracking as inefficient and say that it is not cost effective and that it increases the level of Co2 and damages the environment. This is only profitable for big businesses. The last group are in favour of fracking and see it as a viable way to increase the gas reserve in order to be independent from other countries, such as Russia and U.S.A have their own low cost supply of gas and they are investing on it. They say that there are no real risks in fracking and that companies take the many precautions in order to ensure that it remains that way.

CONSTRAINED SUMMARY

The article talks about fracking and all risks that this poses for aquifers and wells. The commenters can be divided into two main groups, those against fracking and those who support it. The majority are against it and think that it is harmful for the environment and for human health because there are a lack of safety measures in place and a leak could lead to the ground water becoming polluted. They emphasise the danger of the fracking fluids used for the extraction of gas and the possible leak of radioactive material which in case of a leak would not be able to be completely cleared from the surface and so would remain in the ground water and pollute them long term. Quite a large part of the commenters suggest stopping fracking altogether and investing in renewable energy. A smaller number see fracking as inefficient and say that it is not cost effective and that it increases the level of Co2 and damages the environment. This is only profitable for big businesses. The last group are in favour of fracking and see it as a viable way to increase the gas reserve in order to be independent from other countries, such as Russia and U.S.A have their own low cost supply of gas and they are investing on it. They say that there are no real risks in fracking and that companies take the many precautions in order to ensure that it remains that way.

BACK LINKING

The majority are against it and think that it is harmful for the environment and for human health because there are a lack of safety measures in place and a leak could lead to the ground water becoming polluted.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: 1 (40 commenters) cons fracking:

They emphasise the danger of the fracking fluids used for the extraction of gas and the possible leak of radioactive material which in case of a leak would not be able to be completely cleared from the surface and so would remain in the ground water and pollute them long term.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: 1 (40 commenters) cons fracking:

Quite a large part of the commenters suggest stopping fracking altogether and investing in renewable energy.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: 3( 3 commenters)cons fracking and renewable:

The last group are in favour of fracking and see it as a viable way to increase the gas reserve in order to be independent from other countries, such as Russia and U.S.A have their own low cost supply of gas and they are investing on it.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: 2(22 commenters) pro fracking:

They say that there are no real risks in fracking and that companies take the many precautions in order to ensure that it remains that way.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: 2(22 commenters) pro fracking:
