LABELS

Label for comment 1: NHS Tax - Disagrees with new tax - just tax multinationals, the rich, bankers bonuses, and footballers wives.
Label for comment 2: Cost of living - how do we define rich? ie is someone on £50k renting in London with children classed as rich?
Label for comment 3: Cost of living - quotes tory mantra if you can't afford to live here move somewhere cheaper.
Label for comment 4: Tax and businesses - agrees of points raised and believe we need a more progressive tax system. Government should focus more on tax evasion/avoidance, forcing every corporation to pay taxes based on profits made here.
Label for comment 5: Tax and businesses - Triple the NI for businesses, and lower the income tax. The NI is one tax multinationals can't avoid paying
Label for comment 6: Definition of rich - define rich
Label for comment 7: Definition of rich - disagreement with definition of rich.
Label for comment 8: Cost of living - There's something wrong if we have parts of our country that people on £50k can't afford to live.
Label for comment 9: Tax and businesses - It would help if some multinationals actually paid any corporation tax for starters.
Label for comment 10: Tax - wants introduction of mansion tax.
Label for comment 11: Cost of living - Since when, have those earning double the average wage, suddenly become entitled to the consider themselves 'not rich' or what they can't say 'poor'. Highlighting differences in perceptions on richness and those on benefits.
Label for comment 12: Cost of living - lucky if you manage to earn anywhere near the average wage unless you work in London. References to Working Tax Credit and housing benefits.
Label for comment 13: Unclear
Label for comment 14: Tax - comments regarding contractors who typically pay a low tax rate - a practise endemic in oil and gas, government outsourced contracts and higher payed staff in many large corporations.
Label for comment 15: Not relevant
Label for comment 16: Attitudes of politicians/those in government - hard working" people of the nation..... who are constantly being patronised by the mega rich tory boys. Sarcastic comment don't ever forget.... "we are all in this together"
Label for comment 17: Definition of rich - comments regarding divide between extreme wealth in London ie those "building Olympic sized swimming pools and ballrooms under London pads and furnishing yachts" while others a couple of paychecks away from the streets.
Label for comment 18: Tax - We could get behind a financial transactions tax. A modest FTT could generate at least £320bn a year for the UK.
Label for comment 19: Attitudes of politicians/those in government - Negative comments about civil servants.
Label for comment 20: Tax and NI - negative comments about tax and NI increases. "Isn't spending someone else's money wonderful!"
Label for comment 21: Cost of living - questions around public services such as teachers, nurses, police where people cannot afford to live in the communities they serve. Reference to earlier comment regarding if can't afford cost of living in an area then move.
Label for comment 22: Tax -  Suggest land value tax to replace council tax. That way councils would need less central government subsidy and the money could go elsewhere.
Label for comment 23: Tax and businesses - get rid of loopholes which enable Amazon and other companies to virtually avoid paying any tax in this country.
Label for comment 24: NHS Tax - partial agreement of 1p on NI and if taxed the rich properly then could have a decent NHS, plus libraries, fire service, ambulance service, SureStart, Citizens Advice, legal aid, roads without holes, sick and disabled who weren't starving, etc etc etc.
Label for comment 25: Politics - Haven't labour already floated the idea of an NI increase specifically for NHS spending? Who is listening to Lib Dems anymore anyway.
Label for comment 26: Tax - Raising tax hurts growth and therefore in many cases actually leads to tax revenue falling.
Label for comment 27: Politics - The Guardian trying to promote Lib Dems
Label for comment 28: Tax - We need negative growth if we are to stand any chance of survival.
Label for comment 29: Solutions - tax those coming from abroad to use the NHS; tax large corporations whose businesses depend on our infrastructure; stop all unnecessary operations, face lifts etc; change the way the NHS purchases items and consolidate the buying procedures. Why can public see whats wrong yet politicians can't?
Label for comment 30: Solutions - progressive tax - start with those who have double their wealth in the last five years while others have suffered from austerity measures. We were supposed to be "All in it together"
Label for comment 31: Solutions - Why not instead pay everyone a decent living wage allowing workers a decent standard of living.
Label for comment 32: Solutions - reference to Laffer curve and far side of the peak.
Label for comment 33: NHS criticism - at the same time £1.5bn was paid in redundancy payouts, to people who are now back working in the NHS 2-3 months later. Waste.
Label for comment 34: NHS Tax - How much would a penny on NI would raise?
Label for comment 35: Solutions - We are way over peak of Laffer curve.
Label for comment 36: Tax - Doesn't agree with earlier comment regarding raising tax hurts growth.
Label for comment 37: Solutions - agrees with earlier comment regarding partial agreement of 1p on NI and taxing the rich properly.  The hurdle is that it is the wealthy who have the most political influence and often eschew the very choices you list.
Label for comment 38: Definition of rich - comments on demand on material goods. This way of society is not sustainable without a massive change in our consciousness.
Label for comment 39: Tax and NI - The wealthy don't pay NI.
Label for comment 40: Solutions - comment on earlier comment regarding raising tax hurts growth. In fact The reality is quite the reverse. The period that saw the greatest growth in the US was the same period that saw their rich taxed at the highest levels.
Label for comment 41: NHS Tax - disagreement with 1p NI rise. 1% on NI would raise £8bn. That doesn't go far when the NHS is forecast to be £330bn short soon.
Label for comment 42: Solutions - When the top rate of tax was increased, more money was raised than in the previous year, and when the tax was cut again, revenue fell. Reference again of peak of Laffer curve.
Label for comment 43: Politics - negative comments regarding political agenda on NHS funding.
Label for comment 44: Unclear.
Label for comment 45: Solutions - The peak of the Laffer curve is about 48% in a modern economy
Label for comment 46: Public spending - PFI is the cause of increased government spending
Label for comment 47: Tax - reply to earlier comment regarding who doesn't pay NI. "Nor does anyone who doesn't have a job".
Label for comment 48: Politics - The trouble is, no politician is prepared to be honest with the electorate about what good quality services really cost.
Label for comment 49: Politics - agreed on previous comment regarding being honest with the electorate.
Label for comment 50: Solutions - The problem is that people won't bother to earn more money if 95% of it goes to the government. When Thatcher reduced the top rate of tax to 40%, tax revenues increased.
Label for comment 51: Solutions - don't forget whilst income tax has been reduced VAT has increased massively and there's council tax mostly felt by those on lower incomes. With this and massive growth in tax avoidance schemes and tax evasion and it all adds up to a huge problem.
Label for comment 52: Solutions - tax avoidance - comments regarding why so many of the rich have moved abroad.
Label for comment 53: Unclear
Label for comment 54: Solutions - tax avoidance - There is more tax avoidance today than there ever was in the past when income tax was higher. We should adopt the American policy where ex pats have to do tax returns and if they are paying less tax abroad they have to pay the difference or give up their citizenship.
Label for comment 55: Tax - comments regarding Thatchers reduction in tax rates.
Label for comment 56: Tax - tax avoidance - The rich do not want to pay any tax, hence their huge avoidance of it.
Label for comment 57: Tax - tax increases cause people to leave.
Label for comment 58: Politics - Agrees with new proposed tax.  The top 1% of earners pay about 28% of all the income tax, plus a huge amount of VAT on their high spending. Commenter agrees with tax but highlights it will be an unpopular political decision, better after an election, but not as a manifesto commitment.
Label for comment 59: Tax - tax avoidance - in response to earlier comment and influence of press hysteria. HMRC has cracked down enormously on tax avoidance. HMRC estimated avoidance costs about £37bn and evasion £37bn - the NHS needs £330bn.
Label for comment 60: Taxes - another comment on if taxes increase people will leave.
Label for comment 61: Taxes - agrees with tax increases.
Label for comment 62: Public spending - PFI is the cause of increased government spending (repetition of earlier comment).
Label for comment 63: Politics - what makes the ConDems think they will have any MPs after the next election?
Label for comment 64: Politics - Labour do not deserve to govern alone again, nor should they be allowed to, given their appalling track record.
Label for comment 65: Politics - Tories and the Lib Dems, who lied to the electorate don't deserve to be in Government again. The electorate won't fall for any Lib Dem promise in 2015.
Label for comment 66: politics - comments on strong possibility of Lib Dem Labour coalition.
Label for comment 67: Politics - if a govt proposes something that was not in the manifesto,they should be made to have a referendum.
Label for comment 68: Politics - The Tories got 36% of the vote and 47% of the seats. FPTP isn't corrupt it's just not PR.
Label for comment 69: Politics - negative comments regarding Tories.
Label for comment 70: Politics - question earlier comment on Labour's appalling track record.
Label for comment 71: Solutions - Isn't National Insurance a NHS tax? In their constant race to the bottom on taxation and services they seem to have forgotten this. Raise NI and fill the gap.
Label for comment 72: Politics -  Labour Party suggested exact tax increase, though Lib Dems could never be seen to agree with Labour. Negative comments about trustworthiness of Lib Dems - ie they would drop this idea if they went into another coalition with the Tories.
Label for comment 73: Politics - NI definition from earlier. Tories have branded it a jobs tax.
Label for comment 74: Tax and businesses - get rid of loopholes in tax so likes of Google, Vodaphone, Amazon, Microsoft, Starbucks etc should be paying their fair share before any personal taxes are increased.
Label for comment 75: NI definition - Response to 'isn't National Insurance a NHS tax?' No NI is supposed to pay for benefits and state pension, not the NHS.
Label for comment 76: NI definition - Response to 'isn't National Insurance a NHS tax?' No its spent on benefits and state pension and about 20% of NHS funding comes from NI.
Label for comment 77: NI definition - Response to 'isn't National Insurance a NHS tax?' NI doesn't pay for the whole of the NHS.
Label for comment 78: Politics - references of how Lib Dems voted for Bedroom Tax 3 years ago.
Label for comment 79: Public spending - 2012-13, the Government collected £103.8bn from National Insurance receipts.
Label for comment 80: NI definition - Confirmation that NI is spent on  benefits and state pension and NHS.
Label for comment 81: NI definition - Further more specific definition of NI. Until 2009 the NI fund was in surplus.
Label for comment 82: Politics - Labour are no better than the Lib Dems on this. Further references to bedroom tax and general negative comments of all political parties.
Label for comment 83: Solutions - A fair way to address the NHS funding crisis, would be to remove the higher earners NI subsidy is it.
Label for comment 84: Politics - Further comment on untrustworthiness of Lib Dems.
Label for comment 85: Politics - untrustworthiness of Lib Dems - rejection of initial comment.
Label for comment 86: Politics - commenter clarifies why doesn't trust Lib Dems.
Label for comment 87: Politics - Another commenter also clarifies why doesn't trust Lib Dems.
Label for comment 88: Politics - If Lib Dems do get in a coalition government they will have far fewer MPs
Label for comment 89: Politics - Another commenter also clarifies why doesn't trust Lib Dems ie doesn't believe a word they say.
Label for comment 90: Politics - If Labour go into coalition with Lib Dems they can wave goodbye to any support.
Label for comment 91: Politics - polls pointing to no overall majority in Parliament, therefore all three parties are laying down their priorities for any coalition.
Label for comment 92: Politics - in response to previous comment UK Polling report give Labour a majority of 44.
Label for comment 93: Politics - agrees with previous comment  "If Labour go into coalition with Lib Dems they can wave goodbye to any support."
Label for comment 94: Tax - A nonsense idea.
Label for comment 95: Tax - £330bn NHS black hole is just a small part of cost of privatisation and assorted PFI scams.
Label for comment 96: NHS criticism - Not forgetting the wasted billions on the abandoned NHS IT system, known as 'the biggest IT failure ever.
Label for comment 97: NHS criticism - following on from previous comment, criticism of foreign companies who profit from IT failure.
Label for comment 98: Public spending - PFI is the cause of increased government spending (repetition of earlier comment).
Label for comment 99: NI definition - further comment. We need to have an income tax and NI system that clearly shows how tax funds are used for health and welfare services.
Label for comment 100: Unclear

GROUPS

GROUP: NHS Tax
Label for comment 1 [MutantNinjaThinktank]: NHS Tax - Disagrees with new tax - just tax multinationals, the rich, bankers bonuses, and footballers wives.
Label for comment 24 [lokistail]: NHS Tax - partial agreement of 1p on NI and if taxed the rich properly then could have a decent NHS, plus libraries, fire service, ambulance service, SureStart, Citizens Advice, legal aid, roads without holes, sick and disabled who weren't starving, etc etc etc.
Label for comment 34 [Julian Hancock]: NHS Tax - How much would a penny on NI would raise?
Label for comment 41 [Wiltie]: NHS Tax - disagreement with 1p NI rise. 1% on NI would raise £8bn. That doesn't go far when the NHS is forecast to be £330bn short soon.
Label for comment 94 [AndrewStaden]: NHS Tax - A nonsense idea.
Label for comment 95 [Longwoodsy]: NHS Tax - £330bn NHS black hole is just a small part of cost of privatisation and assorted PFI scams.

GROUP: Perceptions of cost of living
Label for comment 2 [Chrispytl]: Cost of living - how do we define rich? ie is someone on £50k renting in London with children classed as rich?
Label for comment 3 [Sickbag]: Cost of living - quotes tory mantra if you can't afford to live here move somewhere cheaper.
Label for comment 8 [Sickbag]: Cost of living - There's something wrong if we have parts of our country that people on £50k can't afford to live.
Label for comment 11 [uglyfruit]: Cost of living - Since when, have those earning double the average wage, suddenly become entitled to the consider themselves 'not rich' or what they can't say 'poor'. Highlighting differences in perceptions on richness and those on benefits.
Label for comment 12 [themuse]: Cost of living - lucky if you manage to earn anywhere near the average wage unless you work in London. References to Working Tax Credit and housing benefits.
Label for comment 21 [supermarine]: Cost of living - questions around public services such as teachers, nurses, police where people cannot afford to live in the communities they serve. Reference to earlier comment regarding if can't afford cost of living in an area then move.

GROUP: Tax and businesses
Label for comment 4 [chejer]: Tax and businesses - agrees of points raised and believe we need a more progressive tax system. Government should focus more on tax evasion/avoidance, forcing every corporation to pay taxes based on profits made here.
Label for comment 5 [Dan Fox]: Tax and businesses - Triple the NI for businesses, and lower the income tax. The NI is one tax multinationals can't avoid paying
Label for comment 9 [SaulZaentz]: Tax and businesses - It would help if some multinationals actually paid any corporation tax for starters.
Label for comment 74 [RubberDucky]: Tax and businesses - get rid of loopholes in tax so likes of Google, Vodaphone, Amazon, Microsoft, Starbucks etc should be paying their fair share before any personal taxes are increased.

GROUP: Perceptions of what is rich in UK
Label for comment 6 [RubberDucky]: Definition of rich - define rich
Label for comment 7 [notKnowing]: Definition of rich - disagreement with definition of rich.
Label for comment 17 [dazedandconfused2]: Definition of rich - comments regarding divide between extreme wealth in London ie those "building Olympic sized swimming pools and ballrooms under London pads and furnishing yachts" while others a couple of paychecks away from the streets.
Label for comment 38 [Rob Dunford]: Definition of rich - comments on demand on material goods. This way of society is not sustainable without a massive change in our consciousness.

GROUP: Tax
Label for comment 10 [stripedone]: Tax - wants introduction of mansion tax.
Label for comment 14 [brian mcgovern]: Tax - comments regarding contractors who typically pay a low tax rate - a practise endemic in oil and gas, government outsourced contracts and higher payed staff in many large corporations.
Label for comment 18 [logos00]: Tax - We could get behind a financial transactions tax. A modest FTT could generate at least £320bn a year for the UK.
Label for comment 22 [GreatBlah]: Tax -  Suggest land value tax to replace council tax. That way councils would need less central government subsidy and the money could go elsewhere.
Label for comment 23 [Oscarcat08]: Tax and businesses - get rid of loopholes which enable Amazon and other companies to virtually avoid paying any tax in this country.
Label for comment 26 [laser24]: Tax - Raising tax hurts growth and therefore in many cases actually leads to tax revenue falling.
Label for comment 28 [Martin Westall]: Tax - We need negative growth if we are to stand any chance of survival.
Label for comment 36 [DJT1Million]: Tax - Doesn't agree with earlier comment regarding raising tax hurts growth.
Label for comment 47 [frazoulaswak]: Tax - reply to earlier comment regarding who doesn't pay NI. "Nor does anyone who doesn't have a job".
Label for comment 55 [nondescrpt]: Tax - comments regarding Thatchers reduction in tax rates.
Label for comment 57 [KatieL]: Tax - tax increases cause people to leave.
Label for comment 60 [canyoudoso]: Taxes - another comment on if taxes increase people will leave.
Label for comment 61 [tonyp1]: Taxes - agrees with tax increases.

GROUP: Attitudes of politicians/those in government
Label for comment 16 [adenjack]: Attitudes of politicians/those in government - hard working" people of the nation..... who are constantly being patronised by the mega rich tory boys. Sarcastic comment don't ever forget.... "we are all in this together"
Label for comment 19 [camera2obscura]: Attitudes of politicians/those in government - Negative comments about civil servants.
Label for comment 25 [Sickbag]: Politics - Haven't labour already floated the idea of an NI increase specifically for NHS spending? Who is listening to Lib Dems anymore anyway.
Label for comment 27 [EgilSkallagrimson]: Politics - The Guardian trying to promote Lib Dems
Label for comment 43 [steviet69]: Politics - negative comments regarding political agenda on NHS funding.
Label for comment 48 [ID7475021]: Politics - The trouble is, no politician is prepared to be honest with the electorate about what good quality services really cost.
Label for comment 49 [Jonathan64]: Politics - agreed on previous comment regarding being honest with the electorate.
Label for comment 58 [Wiltie]: Politics - Agrees with new proposed tax.  The top 1% of earners pay about 28% of all the income tax, plus a huge amount of VAT on their high spending. Commenter agrees with tax but highlights it will be an unpopular political decision, better after an election, but not as a manifesto commitment.
Label for comment 63 [BettyWindsor]: Politics - what makes the ConDems think they will have any MPs after the next election?
Label for comment 64 [RobCNW6]: Politics - Labour do not deserve to govern alone again, nor should they be allowed to, given their appalling track record.
Label for comment 65 [oohyabuggerata]: Politics - Tories and the Lib Dems, who lied to the electorate don't deserve to be in Government again. The electorate won't fall for any Lib Dem promise in 2015.
Label for comment 66 [movedtorant]: politics - comments on strong possibility of Lib Dem Labour coalition.
Label for comment 67 [veteran699]: Politics - if a govt proposes something that was not in the manifesto,they should be made to have a referendum.
Label for comment 68 [Reduced]: Politics - The Tories got 36% of the vote and 47% of the seats. FPTP isn't corrupt it's just not PR.
Label for comment 69 [nondescrpt]: Politics - negative comments regarding Tories.
Label for comment 70 [packc47]: Politics - question earlier comment on Labour's appalling track record.
Label for comment 72 [Sickbag]: Politics -  Labour Party suggested exact tax increase, though Lib Dems could never be seen to agree with Labour. Negative comments about trustworthiness of Lib Dems - ie they would drop this idea if they went into another coalition with the Tories.
Label for comment 73 [DomesticExtremist]: Politics - NI definition from earlier. Tories have branded it a jobs tax.
Label for comment 78 [oohyabuggerata]: Politics - references of how Lib Dems voted for Bedroom Tax 3 years ago.
Label for comment 82 [bitthick]: Politics - Labour are no better than the Lib Dems on this. Further references to bedroom tax and general negative comments of all political parties.
Label for comment 84 [davidabsalom]: Politics - Further comment on untrustworthiness of Lib Dems.
Label for comment 85 [ricmondo]: Politics - untrustworthiness of Lib Dems - rejection of initial comment.
Label for comment 86 [davidabsalom]: Politics - commenter clarifies why doesn't trust Lib Dems.
Label for comment 87 [oohyabuggerata]: Politics - Another commenter also clarifies why doesn't trust Lib Dems.
Label for comment 88 [outofit]: Politics - If Lib Dems do get in a coalition government they will have far fewer MPs
Label for comment 89 [Dubdemon]: Politics - Another commenter also clarifies why doesn't trust Lib Dems ie doesn't believe a word they say.
Label for comment 90 [SybilSanderson]: Politics - If Labour go into coalition with Lib Dems they can wave goodbye to any support.
Label for comment 91 [Knowles2]: Politics - polls pointing to no overall majority in Parliament, therefore all three parties are laying down their priorities for any coalition.
Label for comment 92 [Sickbag]: Politics - in response to previous comment UK Polling report give Labour a majority of 44.
Label for comment 93 [tonyp1]: Politics - agrees with previous comment  "If Labour go into coalition with Lib Dems they can wave goodbye to any support."

GROUP: Tax and NI
Label for comment 20 [Fomalhaut88]: Tax and NI - negative comments about tax and NI increases. "Isn't spending someone else's money wonderful!"
Label for comment 39 [Reduced]: Tax and NI - The wealthy don't pay NI.

GROUP: Solutions to NHS funding crisis
Label for comment 29 [aheadspeath]: Solutions - tax those coming from abroad to use the NHS; tax large corporations whose businesses depend on our infrastructure; stop all unnecessary operations, face lifts etc; change the way the NHS purchases items and consolidate the buying procedures. Why can public see whats wrong yet politicians can't?
Label for comment 30 [chejer]: Solutions - progressive tax - start with those who have double their wealth in the last five years while others have suffered from austerity measures. We were supposed to be "All in it together"
Label for comment 31 [wheelbarrow1]: Solutions - Why not instead pay everyone a decent living wage allowing workers a decent standard of living.
Label for comment 32 [Arethosemyfeet]: Solutions - reference to Laffer curve and far side of the peak.
Label for comment 35 [laser24]: Solutions - We are way over peak of Laffer curve.
Label for comment 37 [illeist]: Solutions - agrees with earlier comment regarding partial agreement of 1p on NI and taxing the rich properly.  The hurdle is that it is the wealthy who have the most political influence and often eschew the very choices you list.
Label for comment 40 [nondescrpt]: Solutions - comment on earlier comment regarding raising tax hurts growth. In fact The reality is quite the reverse. The period that saw the greatest growth in the US was the same period that saw their rich taxed at the highest levels.
Label for comment 42 [Arethosemyfeet]: Solutions - When the top rate of tax was increased, more money was raised than in the previous year, and when the tax was cut again, revenue fell. Reference again of peak of Laffer curve.
Label for comment 45 [jonfanning]: Solutions - The peak of the Laffer curve is about 48% in a modern economy
Label for comment 50 [jonbryce]: Solutions - The problem is that people won't bother to earn more money if 95% of it goes to the government. When Thatcher reduced the top rate of tax to 40%, tax revenues increased.
Label for comment 71 [SirMarky]: Solutions - Isn't National Insurance a NHS tax? In their constant race to the bottom on taxation and services they seem to have forgotten this. Raise NI and fill the gap.
Label for comment 83 [colbristol]: Solutions - A fair way to address the NHS funding crisis, would be to remove the higher earners NI subsidy is it.

SUBGROUP: Tax avoidance
Label for comment 51 [DJT1Million]: Solutions - don't forget whilst income tax has been reduced VAT has increased massively and there's council tax mostly felt by those on lower incomes. With this and massive growth in tax avoidance schemes and tax evasion and it all adds up to a huge problem.
Label for comment 52 [Gnoway]: Solutions - tax avoidance - comments regarding why so many of the rich have moved abroad.
Label for comment 54 [Reduced]: Solutions - tax avoidance - There is more tax avoidance today than there ever was in the past when income tax was higher. We should adopt the American policy where ex pats have to do tax returns and if they are paying less tax abroad they have to pay the difference or give up their citizenship.
Label for comment 56 [nondescrpt]: Tax - tax avoidance - The rich do not want to pay any tax, hence their huge avoidance of it.
Label for comment 59 [Wiltie]: Tax - tax avoidance - in response to earlier comment and influence of press hysteria. HMRC has cracked down enormously on tax avoidance. HMRC estimated avoidance costs about £37bn and evasion £37bn - the NHS needs £330bn.

GROUP: Criticism of NHS
Label for comment 33 [aheadspeath]: NHS criticism - at the same time £1.5bn was paid in redundancy payouts, to people who are now back working in the NHS 2-3 months later. Waste.
Label for comment 96 [MIAsin]: NHS criticism - Not forgetting the wasted billions on the abandoned NHS IT system, known as 'the biggest IT failure ever.
Label for comment 97 [ID1174659]: NHS criticism - following on from previous comment, criticism of foreign companies who profit from IT failure.

GROUP: Public Spending
Label for comment 46 [drongobackfires]: Public spending - PFI is the cause of increased government spending
Label for comment 62 [drongobackfires]: Public spending - PFI is the cause of increased government spending (repetition of earlier comment).
Label for comment 79 [jonbryce]: Public spending - 2012-13, the Government collected £103.8bn from National Insurance receipts.
Label for comment 98 [drongobackfires]: Public spending - PFI is the cause of increased government spending (repetition of earlier comment).

GROUP: NI definition
Label for comment 75 [jonbryce]: NI definition - Response to 'isn't National Insurance a NHS tax?' No NI is supposed to pay for benefits and state pension, not the NHS.
Label for comment 76 [whitehorseview]: NI definition - Response to 'isn't National Insurance a NHS tax?' No its spent on benefits and state pension and about 20% of NHS funding comes from NI.
Label for comment 77 [DJT1Million]: NI definition - Response to 'isn't National Insurance a NHS tax?' NI doesn't pay for the whole of the NHS.
Label for comment 80 [Reduced]: NI definition - Confirmation that NI is spent on  benefits and state pension and NHS.
Label for comment 81 [Reduced]: NI definition - Further more specific definition of NI. Until 2009 the NI fund was in surplus.
Label for comment 99 [WalterBMorgan]: NI definition - further comment. We need to have an income tax and NI system that clearly shows how tax funds are used for health and welfare services.

GROUP: miscellaneous
Label for comment 13 [nancynoonoo]: Unclear
Label for comment 15 [brian mcgovern]: Not relevant
Label for comment 44 [GreatBlah]: Unclear.
Label for comment 53 [scubadoc]: Unclear
Label for comment 100 [ricmondo]: Unclear

UNCONSTRAINED SUMMARY

A majority of the comments were against the idea of the introduction a NHS tax and offered a number of solutions. One commenter suggested rather than introduce a NHS tax, just tax multinationals, the rich, bankers bonuses, and footballers wives. Another commenter proposed a more progressive tax system is required. Some commenters repeated the need to get rid of tax loopholes enabling companies such as Amazon to avoid paying any tax. This led to further comments regarding tax avoidance of the wealthy and how if this was reduced it could help the NHS. Comments also highlighted differing perceptions of wealth and the cost of living particularly in London.

Other commenters criticised the NHS and how it could be made more efficient by stopping all unnecessary operations such as face lifts; and changing the way the NHS purchases items. Other criticism focused on the wasted money on the abandoned NHS IT system.

The largest group of commenters discussed the political aspect of the NHS funding crisis and the influence politicians and the wealthy have on decisions regarding the NHS and tax. A number of comments highlighted the lack of trust in politicians particularly the Lib Dems - one commenter stating that they don't believe a word they say as they lied to the electorate. Some other commenters suggested that the Lib Dem idea of a NHS tax was in fact originally an idea from Labour.

Finally a number of commenters offered definitions of what National Insurance pays for with differing opinions.

CONSTRAINED SUMMARY

A majority of the comments were against the idea of the introduction a NHS tax and offered a number of solutions. One commenter suggested rather than introducing a NHS tax, just tax multinationals, the rich, bankers bonuses, and footballers wives. Another commenter proposed a more progressive tax system is required. Some commenters repeated the need to get rid of tax loopholes enabling companies such as Amazon to avoid paying any tax. This led to further comments regarding tax avoidance of the wealthy and how if this was reduced it could help the NHS. Comments also highlighted differing perceptions of wealth and the cost of living particularly in London.

Other commenters criticised the NHS and how it could be made more efficient by stopping all unnecessary operations such as face lifts; and changing the way the NHS purchases items. Other criticism focused on the wasted money on the abandoned NHS IT system.

The largest group of commenters discussed the political aspect of the NHS funding crisis and the influence politicians and the wealthy have on decisions regarding the NHS and tax. A number of comments highlighted the lack of trust in politicians particularly the Lib Dems - one commenter stating that they don't trust the political party as they had lied to the electorate.

Finally a number of commenters offered definitions of what National Insurance pays for with differing opinions.

BACK LINKING

A majority of the comments were against the idea of the introduction a NHS tax and offered a number of solutions.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: NHS Tax
- GROUP: Perceptions of cost of living
- GROUP: Tax and businesses
- GROUP: Tax
- GROUP: Attitudes of politicians/those in government
- GROUP: Tax and NI
- GROUP: Solutions to NHS funding crisis
- SUBGROUP: Tax avoidance
- GROUP: Criticism of NHS

One commenter suggested rather than introducing a NHS tax, just tax multinationals, the rich, bankers bonuses, and footballers wives.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: NHS Tax

Another commenter proposed a more progressive tax system is required.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Tax and businesses

Some commenters repeated the need to get rid of tax loopholes enabling companies such as Amazon to avoid paying any tax.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Tax and businesses

This led to further comments regarding tax avoidance of the wealthy and how if this was reduced it could help the NHS.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: NHS Tax
- GROUP: Perceptions of cost of living
- GROUP: Perceptions of what is rich in UK

Comments also highlighted differing perceptions of wealth and the cost of living particularly in London.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: NHS Tax
- GROUP: Perceptions of cost of living

Other commenters criticised the NHS and how it could be made more efficient by stopping all unnecessary operations such as face lifts; and changing the way the NHS purchases items.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Solutions to NHS funding crisis

Other criticism focused on the wasted money on the abandoned NHS IT system.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Criticism of NHS

The largest group of commenters discussed the political aspect of the NHS funding crisis and the influence politicians and the wealthy have on decisions regarding the NHS and tax.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Attitudes of politicians/those in government
- GROUP: Solutions to NHS funding crisis
- SUBGROUP: Tax avoidance
- GROUP: Criticism of NHS

A number of comments highlighted the lack of trust in politicians particularly the Lib Dems - one commenter stating that they don't trust the political party as they had lied to the electorate.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Attitudes of politicians/those in government

Finally a number of commenters offered definitions of what National Insurance pays for with differing opinions.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: NI definition
