LABELS

Label for comment 1: Against nationalist rhetoric - Eurofighter Typhoon scheme between UK, Germany, France, Spain and Italy caused severe arguments and strained EU relationships/ integration.
Label for comment 2: Against independence and Salmond - Salmond dangerous to UK growth by cutting taxes and education for Scots. Advanced fighter aircraft more expensive than ships.
Label for comment 3: Agrees with first comment - against Better Togther rhetoric
Label for comment 4: Highest bidder wins the contracts to build ships etc. -- Scotland couldn't match the UK's wealth
Label for comment 6: Salmond is a liar and dangerous. -- BAE will move production from Scotland to Portmouth and Scotland will suffer and lose jobs.
Label for comment 7: Big projects too expensive for one country -- needs co-operation between states.
Label for comment 8: Pro Independence - Scotland has every right to set its own tax to benefit itself. Why would it purposfully disadvantge itself? The UK has equal power to lower taxes.
Label for comment 9: Highest bidders can provide best services. - quote from Alan Shepard
Label for comment 10: BAE - ship could have been built in Portsmouth but it was built in Scotland -- and it could still be in the future.
Label for comment 11: Fighter jets more expensive than ship. Defensive spending on the decrease across Europe.
Label for comment 12: Pro independence - No more MOD contracts to build ships, so everyone at Rosyth + other ports will lose their jobs. Union only offers Scotland poverty and unemployment.
Label for comment 13: Anti independence and Salmond - If Scotland cuts corporation tax, then so will the UK. - damaging to economy. Holyrood unfit for purpose.
Label for comment 14: Warships exempt from cheapest bidder - have to be built in UK.
Label for comment 15: Pro independence - Ireland cut their corporation tax and UK did not retaliate (as suggested earlier)
Label for comment 16: Korean contracts - UK bought four large ships from South Korea - rather than giving jobs to Scotland/UK.
Label for comment 17: Against independence - There can only be a future for Rosyth if Scotland is part of the UK. There is a number of MOD contracts but it is dependent on referendum result.
Label for comment 18: Foreign contracts - cheaper to build in South Korea - bound to happen.
Label for comment 19: Salmond/ SNP lies - BAE would build ships in Portsmouth, and not UK. Don't believe SNP. JObs lost
Label for comment 20: Foreign Contracts - Ships in South Korea are not warships or Navy ships. - Irrelevant to argument to mention these.
Label for comment 21: Lies from politicians - warships have to be built in the UK. There was 'no bid' from UK is a lie.
Label for comment 22: Korean Ships - are clearly warships.
Label for comment 23: Against Independence - UK Gov chose to keep money and skills in the UK by building at Rosyth - if independent, money will be kept in UK still -  job losses in Scot.
Label for comment 24: Against Independence - Rosyth would crumble if Scot independent. Korean ships aren't warships - as defined by the law - and so the contracts were open to the cheapest bidder. The UK and Scotlnd cannot compete with low prices of Koren ship building.
Label for comment 25: Rosyth will crumble if independent Scotland - Korean ships cheaper - warship contracts will be kept in UK.
Label for comment 26: Lies of SNP and Salmond - unclear on future of Rosyth - and no plan
Label for comment 27: Future contracts to build do exist.
Label for comment 28: Korean contract - if UK yards didn't bid, then you cannot complain about Korean building instead.
Label for comment 29: Defence contracts - already moved to Devonport - but Rosyth is the only port big enough for the white elephants.
Label for comment 30: Money could be better spent on NHS, rather than defence.
Label for comment 32: Closure of dockyard in Chatham unrecoverable
Label for comment 33: Fed-up of ridiculous statements made by ordinary people.
Label for comment 35: Pro independence - The UK is better off without Scotland.
Label for comment 36: Pro SNP - UK Gov creates North/south divide and raises tuition fees - SNP offer free education and care for Scotland.
Label for comment 37: Korean ships not warships, they are merchant vessels. But money should be given to UK contracters. Gov only supports culteral elite.
Label for comment 38: Against independence - MOD contracts will be built in UK only - independent Scotland will suffer job losses.
Label for comment 41: Tories cannot promise future MOD contracts until after the general election. If Labour win, it is unclear what the future will be. Korean can offer cheaper ships - UK can't compete.
Label for comment 43: It is the job of the local MPS to compaign for prosperity in their constituency. House off Lords complete waste of time.
Label for comment 44: No need for warships - outdated. SNP at least offering alternatives - Better Together ignoring it.
Label for comment 45: There are plans for more MOD contracts.
Label for comment 47: Warships have to be built, by EU law, inside the UK. Independent Scotland will lose out on future contracts.
Label for comment 48: Ship waste of money - will need renewing.
Label for comment 49: Waste of money - better spent on renewable energy rather than a "killing machine"
Label for comment 50: Pro ship - useful for humanitarian missions, rather than warfare.
Label for comment 52: Waste of money - money better spent on renewable energy - waste of resources using it for humanitarian needs.
Label for comment 55: Waste of money - useless
Label for comment 57: Pro- ship - Defence is needed . Renewables - plenty of investment already. Anti-Labour.
Label for comment 58: Labour would not scrap defence measures
Label for comment 59: Fears of promtng war
Label for comment 61: Waste of money - it will have no aircrafts for 6-10 years and one missle could destroy it all.
Label for comment 62: Ships technology will allow it to defend itself - still useful.
Label for comment 63: Highlights power and acts as a deterrent
Label for comment 64: Russians have missiles capable of destroying ship and fleet.
Label for comment 65: Ship has technolgy to defend itself - Sea Viper/Sampson could take out Russian Vulkan.
Label for comment 66: Waste of money - encourages enemy to build better weapons to counter ship. But, ship can shoot missles out of sky and defend itself.
Label for comment 68: Ship not for defence - can easily be destroyed -  it's just a sign of power.S
Label for comment 69: Ship has capable Samson radars to detect missles and can shoot them from the sky.
Label for comment 71: Waste of money - 65,000 ton slow-moving ship is a target and will be obsolete in a few years.
Label for comment 73: Ballistic missile could not destroy shit - can defend itself. A submarine could easily destory it though.
Label for comment 74: Inneffective and waste of money - big target, slow and need protcton from other forces. High maintenance.
Label for comment 75: Inneffective - better technology out there.
Label for comment 76: Waste of money and ineffective. It will take six years to get planes on it. Needs a large suppoting fleet to protect it. Ships large and vulnerable. Have to rely on other forces, like USA, to rent necessary equipment.
Label for comment 77: Anti-war - prevents global peace.
Label for comment 78: Anti-war boring and nonsense
Label for comment 80: Royal Navel stopped slavery and piracy in 19th century - not all bad
Label for comment 81: Anti-war - UK pillaged American Indians and Iraq - death toll much higher than WWs - in the name of nationalism.
Label for comment 82: Navy enforced slavery.
Label for comment 83: Opposes anti patriotism or treachery.
Label for comment 85: Wars have had good results - end of slavery, facism etc.
Label for comment 86: Anti-war and anti-empire - rich have used military to commit crimes against humanity and build economic prosperity. Peace is the only option, or destruction.
Label for comment 87: Waste of money - Some of the carriers and aircrafts will be sold off in austerity cuts.
Label for comment 89: Appearance - Ugly carrier, ugly name and ugly planes.
Label for comment 90: Appearance- HMS Hood looked pretty
Label for comment 91: UK has no battlecruisers anymore.
Label for comment 92: Appearance- Some ships can be handsome
Label for comment 93: Appearance - White ships look better
Label for comment 94: Scottish pride in ship
Label for comment 96: Mostly built in England - not Scotland
Label for comment 97: Waste of money - missles more effective
Label for comment 98: Threat of Russia growing - waste of money - money better spent on more effective weapons
Label for comment 103: Why have we not got aircrafts already that can use the ship?
Label for comment 104: Aircrafts sold to USA cheaply for training.

GROUPS

GROUP: The HMS Queen Elizabeth is a waste of money (planes will take 6 years) and is an insufficient form of defence (big, slow target)/there is better technology available/ Can defend itself
Label for comment 97 [pter1960]: Waste of money - missles more effective
Label for comment 98 [RonJB]: Threat of Russia growing - waste of money - money better spent on more effective weapons
Label for comment 61 [finneston]: Waste of money - it will have no aircrafts for 6-10 years and one missle could destroy it all.
Label for comment 62 [paul mullins]: Ships technology will allow it to defend itself - still useful.
Label for comment 63 [LossinLips]: Highlights power and acts as a deterrent
Label for comment 64 [DownEast]: Russians have missiles capable of destroying ship and fleet.
Label for comment 65 [paul mullins]: Ship has technolgy to defend itself - Sea Viper/Sampson could take out Russian Vulkan.
Label for comment 66 [CitizenMoe]: Waste of money - encourages enemy to build better weapons to counter ship. But, ship can shoot missles out of sky and defend itself.
Label for comment 68 [arbitrarynight]: Ship not for defence - can easily be destroyed -  it's just a sign of power.S
Label for comment 69 [paul mullins]: Ship has capable Samson radars to detect missles and can shoot them from the sky.
Label for comment 71 [TerribleLyricist]: Waste of money - 65,000 ton slow-moving ship is a target and will be obsolete in a few years.
Label for comment 73 [Lysicamus]: Ballistic missile could not destroy ship - can defend itself. A submarine could easily destory it though.
Label for comment 74 [Spokeydokey]: Inneffective and waste of money - big target, slow and need protcton from other forces. High maintenance.
Label for comment 75 [paul mullins]: Inneffective - better technology out there.
Label for comment 76 [arbitrarynight]: Waste of money and ineffective. It will take six years to get planes on it. Needs a large suppoting fleet to protect it. Ships large and vulnerable. Have to rely on other forces, like USA, to rent necessary equipment.
Label for comment 48 [regbobsal]: Ship waste of money - will need renewing.
Label for comment 49 [UncleBacterial]: Waste of money - better spent on renewable energy rather than a "killing machine"
Label for comment 52 [JimNolan]: Waste of money - money better spent on renewable energy - waste of resources using it for humanitarian needs.
Label for comment 55 [mpeel]: Waste of money - useless
Label for comment 87 [RoryH]: Waste of money - Some of the carriers and aircrafts will be sold off in austerity cuts.
Label for comment 44 [Macky1982]: No need for warships - outdated. SNP at least offering alternatives - Better Together ignoring it.

GROUP: Korean built ships are not warships/ contracts can be sold to cheapest bidder / UK + Scotland can't compete/ contracts should go to UK 
Label for comment 16 [TheGreatRonRafferty]: Korean contracts - UK bought four large ships from South Korea - rather than giving jobs to Scotland/UK.
Label for comment 22 [TheGreatRonRafferty]: Korean Ships - are clearly warships.
Label for comment 24 [Rudeboy1]: Against Independence - Rosyth would crumble if Scot independent. Korean ships aren't warships - as defined by the law - and so the contracts were open to the cheapest bidder. The UK and Scotlnd cannot compete with low prices of Koren ship building.
Label for comment 25 [Happytravelling]: Rosyth will crumble if independent Scotland - Korean ships cheaper - warship contracts will be kept in UK.
Label for comment 28 [Bangorstu]: Korean contract - if UK yards didn't bid, then you cannot complain about Korean building instead.
Label for comment 37 [1649]: Korean ships not warships, they are merchant vessels. But money should be given to UK contracters. Gov only supports culteral elite.
Label for comment 18 [Rudeboy1]: Korean contracts - cheaper to build in South Korea - bound to happen.
Label for comment 20 [Bangorstu]: Foreign Contracts - Ships in South Korea are not warships or Navy ships. - Irrelevant to argument to mention these.

GROUP: Anti-independence, anti-Salmond/SNP - If Scotland go independent their shipyards (Rosyth) would close/ lose thosuands of jobs and contracts would go to Portsmouth/UK / unfair tax cuts to Scots 
Label for comment 4 [TommyG50]: Highest bidder wins the contracts to build ships etc. -- Scotland couldn't match the UK's wealth
Label for comment 17 [Rudeboy1]: Against independence - There can only be a future for Rosyth if Scotland is part of the UK. There is a number of MOD contracts but it is dependent on referendum result.
Label for comment 19 [Rudeboy1]: Salmond/ SNP lies - BAE would build ships in Portsmouth, and not UK. Don't believe SNP. JObs lost
Label for comment 29 [Liesandstats]: Defence contracts - already moved to Devonport - but Rosyth is the only port big enough for the white elephants.
Label for comment 32 [YoungHarryBlamires]: Closure of dockyard in Chatham unrecoverable
Label for comment 23 [Happytravelling]: Against Independence - UK Gov choose to keep money and skills in the UK by building at Rosyth - if independent, money will be kept in UK still -  job losses in Scot.
Label for comment 24 [Rudeboy1]: Against Independence - Rosyth would crumble if Scot independent. Korean ships aren't warships - as defined by the law - and so the contracts were open to the cheapest bidder. The UK and Scotlnd cannot compete with low prices of Koren ship building.
Label for comment 25 [Happytravelling]: Rosyth will crumble if independent Scotland - Korean ships cheaper - warship contracts will be kept in UK.
Label for comment 26 [NYorkie]: Lies of SNP and Salmond - unclear on future of Rosyth - and no plan
Label for comment 38 [keable68]: Against independence - MOD contracts will be built in UK only - independent Scotland will suffer job losses.
Label for comment 47 [MrsTrellice]: Warships have to be built, by EU law, inside the UK. Independent Scotland will lose out on future contracts.
Label for comment 2 [RabbitLeader]: Against independence and Salmond - Salmond dangerous to UK growth by cutting taxes and education for Scots. Advanced fighter aircraft more expensive than ships.
Label for comment 6 [RabbitLeader]: Salmond is a liar and dangerous. -- BAE will move production from Scotland to Portmouth and Scotland will suffer and lose jobs.
Label for comment 7 [Tenthred]: Big projects too expensive for one country -- needs co-operation between states.
Label for comment 13 [RabbitLeader]: Anti independence and Salmond - If Scotland cuts corporation tax, then so will the UK. - damaging to economy. Holyrood unfit for purpose.
Label for comment 96 [Herbgold]: Mostly built in England - not Scotland
Label for comment 21 [TheGreatRonRafferty]: Lies from politicians - warships have to be built in the UK. There was 'no bid' from UK is a lie.
Label for comment 14 [Rudeboy1]: Warships exempt from cheapest bidder - have to be built in UK.

GROUP: Pro-independence - Future MOD contracts at Scot docks have been promised. Eurofighter Typhoon shows why integration does not work/ Scotland has every right to lower taxes
Label for comment 1 [Tenthred]: Against nationalist rhetoric - Eurofighter Typhoon scheme between UK, Germany, France, Spain and Italy caused severe arguments and strained EU relationships/ integration.
Label for comment 3 [davser]: Agrees with first comment - against Better Togther rhetoric
Label for comment 8 [EpicNinjaCowboy]: Pro Independence - Scotland has every right to set its own tax to benefit itself. Why would it purposfully disadvantge itself? The UK has equal power to lower taxes.
Label for comment 10 [NYorkie]: BAE - ship could have been built in Portsmouth but it was built in Scotland -- and it could still be in the future.
Label for comment 12 [Bulington]: Pro independence - No more MOD contracts to build ships, so everyone at Rosyth + other ports will lose their jobs. Union only offers Scotland poverty and unemployment.
Label for comment 15 [HulloHulot]: Pro independence - Ireland cut their corporation tax and UK did not retaliate (as suggested earlier)
Label for comment 35 [MiddleAgedMod]: Pro independence - The UK is better off without Scotland.
Label for comment 36 [Johanes]: Pro SNP - UK Gov creates North/south divide and raises tuition fees - SNP offer free education and care for Scotland.
Label for comment 27 [ID320158]: Future contracts to build do exist.
Label for comment 41 [Bulington]: Tories cannot promise future MOD contracts until after the general election. If Labour win, it is unclear what the future will be. Korean can offer cheaper ships - UK can't compete.
Label for comment 94 [TommyG50]: Scottish pride in ship
Label for comment 45 [MrsTrellice]: There are plans for more MOD contracts.
Label for comment 44 [Macky1982]: No need for warships - outdated. SNP at least offering alternatives - Better Together ignoring it.

GROUP: Pro-ship - defence is needed to deter threat of Russia
Label for comment 50 [t1stpragma]: Pro ship - useful for humanitarian missions, rather than warfare.
Label for comment 57 [t1stpragma]: Pro- ship - Defence is needed . Renewables - plenty of investment already. Anti-Labour.

GROUP: Anti-war/ peace debate - New ship prevents worldwide peace
Label for comment 77 [UncleBacterial]: Anti-war - ship prevents global peace.
Label for comment 78 [Dadstheman]: Anti-war is boring and nonsense
Label for comment 80 [shinsei]: Royal Navel stopped slavery and piracy in 19th century - not all bad
Label for comment 81 [UncleBacterial]: Anti-war - UK pillaged American Indians and Iraq - death toll much higher than WWs - in the name of nationalism.
Label for comment 82 [UncleBacterial]: Navy enforced slavery.
Label for comment 83 [mygreatgiddyaunt]: Opposes anti patriotism or treachery.
Label for comment 85 [1649]: Wars have had good results - end of slavery, facism etc.
Label for comment 86 [UncleBacterial]: Anti-war and anti-empire - rich have used military to commit crimes against humanity and build economic prosperity. Peace is the only option, or destruction.
Label for comment 59 [GenHernandez]: Fears of promoting war
Label for comment 30 [bumcyk]: Money could be better spent on NHS, rather than defence.

GROUP: The appearance of the ship/ ugly/ handsome
Label for comment 89 [real tic]: Appearance - Ugly carrier, ugly name and ugly planes.
Label for comment 90 [worksforcommunityorg]: Appearance- HMS Hood looked pretty
Label for comment 91 [real tic]: UK has no battlecruisers anymore.
Label for comment 92 [Lysicamus]: Appearance- Some ships can be handsome
Label for comment 93 [MoscowCenter]: Appearance - White ships look better

GROUP: miscellaneous
Label for comment 33 [JWil]: Fed-up of ridiculous statements made by ordinary people.
Label for comment 9 [Idi_Amin]: Highest bidders can provide best services. - quote from Alan Shepard
Label for comment 103 [log55is7404]: Why have we not got aircrafts already that can use the ship?
Label for comment 104 [RonJB]: Aircrafts sold to USA cheaply for training.
Label for comment 43 [EpicNinjaCowboy]: It is the job of the local MPS to compaign for prosperity in their constituency. House off Lords complete waste of time.

UNCONSTRAINED SUMMARY

The majority of commenters argued that HMS Queen Elizabeth is a waste of money. They said the ship will be without planes for six to 10 years while they are being built and the maintenance costs will be unsustainable. Many were concerned that the ship is ineffective as a defensive deterrent. They said due to the sheer size of the ship it would be a prime target for enemy forces, and one missile could destroy it. They said it would need a whole fleet to protect it if it ever went into battle. Some people argued that there is better technology available and warships are out-dated in modern warfare. 

However, others said the ship is equipped with technology capable of detecting and destroying missiles and concluded it can protect itself.

A considerate number of people opposed Scotland becoming an independent country. They said that if it did then future Ministry of Defence contracts would go to UK companies and Scottish shipyards would close and thousands of jobs would be lost. 

Many other commenters expressed anger that the UK government had contracted South Korea to build ships. They cited EU law which means that warships have to be built in the country that needs them. However, others pointed out that the ships being built by South Korea are not warships, but vessels. They said that South Korea can build the ships at a far cheaper rate and UK companies cannot compete. 

Some people were in favour of Scottish independence. They said that the Conservative government had promised to continue contracting Scottish companies and there were plans by the MOD for further work to be done. 

A small number of people said the ship hinders global peace efforts and the money spent of building a 'killing machine' could be invested in renewable energy or the NHS.

CONSTRAINED SUMMARY

The majority of commenters argued that HMS Queen Elizabeth is a waste of money. They said the ship will be without planes for six to 10 years while they are being built and the maintenance costs will be unsustainable. Many were concerned that the ship is ineffective as a defensive deterrent. They said due to the sheer size of the ship it would be a prime target for enemy forces, and one missile could destroy it. They said it would need a whole fleet to protect it if it ever went into battle. Some people argued that there is better technology available and warships are out-dated in modern warfare. 

However, others said the ship is equipped with technology capable of detecting and destroying missiles and concluded it can protect itself.

A considerate number of people opposed Scotland becoming an independent country. They said that if it did then future Ministry of Defence contracts would go to UK companies and Scottish shipyards would close and thousands of jobs would be lost. 

Many other commenters expressed anger that the MOD had contracted South Korea to build ships. They said UK companies cannot compete. 

Some people were in favour of Scottish independence. They said there were plans by the MOD for further work to be done in Scotland and the government had promised this.

A small number of people said the ship hinders global peace efforts and the money could be invested in renewable energy or the NHS instead.

BACK LINKING

The majority of commenters argued that HMS Queen Elizabeth is a waste of money.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: The HMS Queen Elizabeth is a waste of money (planes will take 6 years) and is an insufficient form of defence (big, slow target)/there is better technology available/ Can defend itself

They said the ship will be without planes for six to 10 years while they are being built and the maintenance costs will be unsustainable.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: The HMS Queen Elizabeth is a waste of money (planes will take 6 years) and is an insufficient form of defence (big, slow target)/there is better technology available/ Can defend itself

Many were concerned that the ship is ineffective as a defensive deterrent.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: The HMS Queen Elizabeth is a waste of money (planes will take 6 years) and is an insufficient form of defence (big, slow target)/there is better technology available/ Can defend itself

They said due to the sheer size of the ship it would be a prime target for enemy forces, and one missile could destroy it.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: The HMS Queen Elizabeth is a waste of money (planes will take 6 years) and is an insufficient form of defence (big, slow target)/there is better technology available/ Can defend itself

They said it would need a whole fleet to protect it if it ever went into battle.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: The HMS Queen Elizabeth is a waste of money (planes will take 6 years) and is an insufficient form of defence (big, slow target)/there is better technology available/ Can defend itself

Some people argued that there is better technology available and warships are out-dated in modern warfare.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: The HMS Queen Elizabeth is a waste of money (planes will take 6 years) and is an insufficient form of defence (big, slow target)/there is better technology available/ Can defend itself

However, others said the ship is equipped with technology capable of detecting and destroying missiles and concluded it can protect itself.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: The HMS Queen Elizabeth is a waste of money (planes will take 6 years) and is an insufficient form of defence (big, slow target)/there is better technology available/ Can defend itself

A considerate number of people opposed Scotland becoming an independent country.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Anti-independence, anti-Salmond/SNP - If Scotland go independent their shipyards (Rosyth) would close/ lose thosuands of jobs and contracts would go to Portsmouth/UK / unfair tax cuts to Scots

They said that if it did then future Ministry of Defence contracts would go to UK companies and Scottish shipyards would close and thousands of jobs would be lost.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Anti-independence, anti-Salmond/SNP - If Scotland go independent their shipyards (Rosyth) would close/ lose thosuands of jobs and contracts would go to Portsmouth/UK / unfair tax cuts to Scots

Many other commenters expressed anger that the MOD had contracted South Korea to build ships.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Korean built ships are not warships/ contracts can be sold to cheapest bidder / UK + Scotland can't compete/ contracts should go to UK

They said UK companies cannot compete.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Korean built ships are not warships/ contracts can be sold to cheapest bidder / UK + Scotland can't compete/ contracts should go to UK

Some people were in favour of Scottish independence.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Pro-independence - Future MOD contracts at Scot docks have been promised. Eurofighter Typhoon shows why integration does not work/ Scotland has every right to lower taxes

They said there were plans by the MOD for further work to be done in Scotland and the government had promised this.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Pro-independence - Future MOD contracts at Scot docks have been promised. Eurofighter Typhoon shows why integration does not work/ Scotland has every right to lower taxes

A small number of people said the ship hinders global peace efforts and the money could be invested in renewable energy or the NHS instead.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Anti-war/ peace debate - New ship prevents worldwide peace
