LABELS

Label for comment 1: Disputes the fact that money could all be going to construction
Label for comment 2: Agrees that money will be divided. Trying to figure out where money will go
Label for comment 3: Also trying to figure out where money will go
Label for comment 4: Good move for Tesco, home building will earn more money than food
Label for comment 5: Thinks houses will be small, cramped 'typically new'
Label for comment 6: Says any other way would be too expensive
Label for comment 7: Houses prices are shocking, they need to be affordable
Label for comment 8: Tesco joke about receiving club card points for getting a Tesco house
Label for comment 9: Another Tesco joke, offers on housing
Label for comment 10: Tesco joke, expensive houses may be in the 'Tesco Finest' jokes about more expensive shops doing the same
Label for comment 11: Tesco needs to create the right homes for certain areas, but agrees houses are very expensive. Loves his/her shared garden, but not for keen gardeners
Label for comment 12: Tesco are taking a step in the right direction, stop complaining
Label for comment 14: Wants bigger houses, says houses in this country are getting smaller and smaller
Label for comment 15: No, Tesco are not doing this for good reasons, but because they're business model is wobbling. Housing is getting smaller, we should be like the Dutch
Label for comment 16: Housing is getting smaller, imagines sitting with grandson in 70 years and him not believing the size of his last house's garden (100yards)
Label for comment 17: Agrees it may be selfish, but Tesco are going the right way about it by helping people with lack of housing. Agrees housing is getting smaller but sees beauty in a small yard
Label for comment 18: Implies Tesco are being selfish, bets on only Tescos being allowed in the area
Label for comment 19: Smaller rooms are a problem. Should be law that housing particulars include the price per sq metre. Lack of gardens/parking spaces is not a problem in urban areas however
Label for comment 20: Cannot believe a 100yard garden mentioned in a previous comment 'now' is also jealous of it
Label for comment 21: Sarcastically says Tesco should leave the land undeveloped. Implies people DO NOT want that
Label for comment 22: Likes the sound of shared garden, agreed gardeners could spend more money on a sizeable garden. There is a gap in the affordable range of housing thanks to 70s' council flats
Label for comment 23: Says too expensive to live in large places, but people should get to. Won't happen unless property prices are halved
Label for comment 24: Apartments = overcrowded streets
Label for comment 25: Disagrees apartments = thriving, bustling high streets
Label for comment 26: Back yard developments these days are creating 'the slums of Mumbal'
Label for comment 27: Tesco is no longer wanted and they just want to make lots of money. Sees other stores following suit and decline of shopping in supermarkets due to internet shopping and high petrol costs. Shops online often.
Label for comment 28: Tesco is the evil empire, Wonders if Tesco's stockpiling of land fuelled the housing crisis and forced prices up
Label for comment 29: Britain has smallest houses in Europe. Many new builds meet minimum legal requirements. Says any home is better than nothing
Label for comment 30: No concrete over the countryside. Get rid of the greenbelt land and see the quality of life in the country plummet
Label for comment 31: House with big garden was not in London
Label for comment 32: They're maximising profit, Tesco are selfish. IS there any news of donations to community projects?
Label for comment 33: No need for cries over the environment, the article on mentions a disused factory. Homes are much needed.
Label for comment 34: Why do people who want larger houses keep buying smaller ones? People need to decide whether the wait for the right property for them is better than settling for any property even if not suited to their needs. Stop accepting things that are thrown at us.
Label for comment 35: People can only afford small houses, they why they buy them. Owning your own place is a basic instinct
Label for comment 36: Some people have never had any instinct to own their own place. Nation must make a stand and stop buying things that don't meed requirements
Label for comment 37: It is silly to deny human territoriality
Label for comment 38: Wants to preserve environment and wants decent sized housing
Label for comment 39: Talk of instinct and territoriality is nonsense
Label for comment 40: Yes humans mark territories, on walls and fences especially
Label for comment 41: Tesco slogan, joke
Label for comment 42: Joint on from slogan, Tesco want to get richer
Label for comment 43: Joke, every little house helps
Label for comment 44: Joke, every little house helps
Label for comment 45: Every little does help until they can start building hotels in Mayfair
Label for comment 46: It won't solve the housing crisis, but every little helps
Label for comment 47: Housing crisis will always exists if Labour allows open door policy
Label for comment 48: ACTUALLY Housing crisis will continue if private companies keep sitting on land, leaving it undeveloped. Housing crisis needs could be met if not for the financial interests of companies
Label for comment 49: Average net immigration under Labour more than Tories
Label for comment 50: Provides reasons for more immigration under Labour e.g. worse life then and increasing difficulty in non-EU countries
Label for comment 51: Private enterprise knows no bounds, Tesco are just another element greedy for their own place
Label for comment 52: Sick of people blaming Labour for problems, Labour have not been in government for over 4 years
Label for comment 53: Annoyed at suggestion Labour's mistakes can be fixed in 4 years
Label for comment 54: There is more than enough money, they government just don't want to spend it on you. People are 'conturing up the hated boogeyman from overseas' to distract from real problem of being screwed over by the government
Label for comment 55: Joke, are Tesco crazy?
Label for comment 56: Joke, about Tesco being crazy
Label for comment 57: Joke, hoping public are not be tricked
Label for comment 58: Joke
Label for comment 59: Tesco are selfish, trying to recover losses to big discounters like Aldi
Label for comment 60: Is this a sign that market forces can work? Wonders how much tax Aldi pays
Label for comment 61: It is much better than they leave the land undeveloped. Public gets what they want and Tesco get what they want.  People were complaining about Tesco last week
Label for comment 62: Provides proof of Aldi's tax paying
Label for comment 63: Aldi tax
Label for comment 64: Aldi tax
Label for comment 65: Aldi tax
Label for comment 66: Aldi tax
Label for comment 67: Aldi staff pay more tax because they are all better paid
Label for comment 68: Why are Tesco allowed to build up land to such levels? Where is the safeguarding?
Label for comment 69: Publicity stunt from Tesco
Label for comment 71: The houses is what people wanted after last issue with Tesco
Label for comment 72: Confused at Tesco's activities
Label for comment 73: They bought land with the money from selling us what we wanted and are now building things that we want on it (houses) instead of the things we don't want (more Tescos) What is the problem? Doesn't matter who is building homes as long as they are getting built
Label for comment 74: Not enough houses
Label for comment 75: Implies Tesco is a corporation that 'overcharge us and then keep their profits til they're forced to reinvest it into the community.' Tesco are selfish
Label for comment 76: People should 'hate' them for the right reasons. They've all taken the route of small profits from lots of customers, instead of bigger profits from a smaller number of customers. They are doing what we wanted, whether we forced them or not.
Label for comment 77: Wonders on figures of houses needed
Label for comment 78: Should Tesco be blamed for housing crisis?
Label for comment 79: Joke about horsemeat burgers from Tesco
Label for comment 80: Free will means you don't have to shop where you don't want to
Label for comment 81: Good business decision for Tesco, what is the problem? Good price for selling as house building development, good publicity,
Label for comment 82: Complaint on staff's low wages, should give houses to them
Label for comment 83: Tesco employees can buy the homes too, with a mortgage
Label for comment 84: Impossible to get mortgages on their wages
Label for comment 85: Wonders what is the deal with the issue with wages?
Label for comment 86: Why should they offer these to staff?
Label for comment 87: Also feels they should build homes for their underpaid staff
Label for comment 88: Tesco is a business, not a charity. Britain is awash with workers who are desperate for paid work. Tesco can pick them off like cherries from a tree. Why would Tesco do anything that might compromise its profits?
Label for comment 89: No supermarket pays staff enough
Label for comment 90: They all pay their staff enough i.e, enough to attract & retain the quality & quantity of staff that they deem necessary
Label for comment 91: Skeptical about Tesco saying they are playing their part in meeting local housing needs, expects the home will lack affordability
Label for comment 92: Tesco could build workhouses for their employees and pay them in tokens, to be spent in local shop
Label for comment 93: Skeptical of homes being affordable as Tesco love to make profit.
Label for comment 94: If they are not affordable, they will not sell. So they will be affordable.
Label for comment 95: After article last week with people demanding Tesco build homes, people are now unhappy. What do public want?
Label for comment 96: They will be 'affordable' to people taking on vast amounts of debt.
Label for comment 97: 'Affordable' is relative
Label for comment 98: Personal debt loading that got us into trouble in the first place.
Label for comment 99: Agrees that 'affordable' is too relative
Label for comment 100: Will these new estates be known as settlements?
Label for comment 101: Also predicts a Tesco in each of these 'settlements.'
Label for comment 102: Agreeing with the Tesco empire plan
Label for comment 103: Tesco empire plan
Label for comment 104: Annoyed at complaints

GROUPS

GROUP: Label GOOD FOR TESCO
Label for comment 4 [StockBet]: Good move for Tesco, home building will earn more money than food
Label for comment 25 [beadster]: Disagrees apartments = thriving, bustling high streets

GROUP: Label SKEPTICAL/UNTRUSTWORTHY OF TESCO'S USE OF MONEY
Label for comment 1 [HappyValley]: Disputes the fact that money could all be going to construction
Label for comment 2 [CaptCrash]: Agrees that money will be divided. Trying to figure out where money will go
Label for comment 3 [robm2001]: Also trying to figure out where money will go
Label for comment 24 [Lawabider]: Apartments = overcrowded streets
Label for comment 28 [haras99]: Tesco is the evil empire, Wonders if Tesco's stockpiling of land fuelled the; housing crisis and forced prices up
Label for comment 72 [IGiveTheWatchToYou]: Confused at Tesco's activities
Label for comment 91 [Thomas19999]: Skeptical about Tesco saying they are playing their part in meeting local; housing needs, expects the home will lack affordability
Label for comment 93 [Deja]: Skeptical of homes being affordable as Tesco love to make profit.
Label for comment 96 [wishyouwerehere]: They will be 'affordable' to people taking on vast amounts of debt.
Label for comment 100 [Lockhurst]: Will these new estates be known as settlements?
Label for comment 101 [babeldweller]: Also predicts a Tesco in each of these 'settlements.'
Label for comment 102 [RegionalOrganic]: Agreeing with the Tesco empire plan
Label for comment 103 [babeldweller]: Tesco empire plan

SUBGROUP: Label SLUMS/POOR HOUSING/ENVIRONMENTAL
Label for comment 26 [FridayWaits]: Back yard developments these days are creating 'the slums of Mumbal'
Label for comment 30 [JeffersonAirplane]: No concrete over the countryside. Get rid of the greenbelt land and; see the quality of life in the country plummet
Label for comment 38 [JeffersonAirplane]: Wants to preserve environment and wants decent sized housing

GROUP: Label TESCO ARE SELFISH, ONLY WANT TO MAKE MONEY. NO CHARITY/ANYTHING THAT DOESN'T BENEFIT THEM
Label for comment 18 [aliasatyl]: Implies Tesco are being selfish, bets on only Tescos being allowed in the area
Label for comment 32 [neiallswheel]: They're maximising profit, Tesco are selfish. IS there any news of donations; to community projects?
Label for comment 59 [Jungfreud]: Tesco are selfish, trying to recover losses to big discounters like Aldi
Label for comment 69 [Dnhnhnntnyet36645656]: Publicity stunt from Tesco
Label for comment 75 [IGiveTheWatchToYou]: Implies Tesco is a corporation that 'overcharge us and then keep; their profits til they're forced to reinvest it into the community.' Tesco are selfish

SUBGROUP: Label NOBODY LIKES TESCO ANYMORE
Label for comment 27 [silverthread]: Tesco is no longer wanted and they just want to make lots of money.; Sees other stores following suit and decline of shopping in supermarkets due to internet shopping and high; petrol costs. Shops online often.

GROUP: Label IMMIGRATION IS THE PROBLEM & GOVERNMENT'S FLAWS
Label for comment 47 [Worried9876]: Housing crisis will always exist if Labour allows open door policy
Label for comment 49 [showmaster]: Average net immigration under Labour more than Tories
Label for comment 52 [baggins45]: Sick of people blaming Labour for problems, Labour have not been in; government for over 4 years
Label for comment 53 [Worried9876]: Annoyed at suggestion Labour's mistakes can be fixed in 4 years
Label for comment 54 [Wonkothesane76]: There is more than enough money, they government just don't want to; spend it on you. People are 'conjuring up the hated boogeyman from overseas' to distract from real; problem of being screwed over by the government
Label for comment 68 [tirmas]: Why are Tesco allowed to build up land to such levels? Where is the safeguarding?
Label for comment 78 [billcro]: Should Tesco be blamed for housing crisis?

SUBGROUP: Label DISAGREEING WITH IMMIGRATION BLAMING
Label for comment 50 [Worried9876]: Provides reasons for more immigration under Labour e.g. worse life then and; increasing difficulty in non-EU countries

GROUP: Label PRIVATE COMPANIES ARE THE PROBLEM
Label for comment 48 [Wonkothesane76]: ACTUALLY Housing crisis will continue if private companies keep sitting; on land, leaving it undeveloped. Housing crisis needs could be met if not for the financial interests of companies
Label for comment 51 [EuropeanOnion]: Private enterprise knows no bounds, Tesco are just another element; greedy for their own place

GROUP: Label HOUSES ARE TOO EXPENSIVE and/or SMALL
Label for comment 5 [JeffersonAirplane]: Thinks houses will be small, cramped 'typically new
Label for comment 7 [beadster]: Houses prices are shocking, they need to be affordable
Label for comment 14 [JeffersonAirplane]: Wants bigger houses, says houses in this country are getting smaller; and smaller
Label for comment 15 [JeffersonAirplane]: No, Tesco are not doing this for good reasons, but because they're; business model is wobbling. Housing is getting smaller, we should be like the Dutch
Label for comment 16 [JeffersonAirplane]: Housing is getting smaller, imagines sitting with grandson in 70 years; and him not believing the size of his last house's garden (100yards)
Label for comment 20 [K2zep63]: Cannot believe a 100yard garden mentioned in a previous comment 'now'; is also jealous of it
Label for comment 74 [Gelion]: Not enough houses

'SUBGROUP: Label: HOUSES HAVE TO BE SMALL TO BE AFFORDABLE
Label for comment 6 [TheRunawayFound]: Says any other way would be too expensive
Label for comment 11 [kimdriver]: Tesco needs to create the right homes for certain areas, but agrees; houses are very expensive. Loves his/her shared garden, but not for keen gardeners
Label for comment 35 [aquagreen]: People can only afford small houses, they why they buy them.; Owning your own place is a basic instinct

SUBGROUP: Label 'AFFORDABLE IS RELATIVE'
Label for comment 97 [Cynic24]: 'Affordable' is relative
Label for comment 99 [Deja]: Agrees that 'affordable' is too relative

SUBGROUP: Label OFFERS SOLUTION TO HOUSING PROBLEMS
Label for comment 19 [bromley]: Smaller rooms are a problem. Should be law that housing particulars include; the price per sq metre. Lack of gardens/parking spaces is not a problem in urban areas however
Label for comment 22 [beadster]: Likes the sound of shared garden, agreed gardeners could spend more money; on a sizeable garden. There is a gap in the affordable range of housing thanks to 70s' council flats
Label for comment 23 [beadster]: Says too expensive to live in large places, but people should get to.; Won't happen unless property prices are halved

GROUP: Label TESCO ARE DOING THE RIGHT THING/ WHY ARE PEOPLE COMPLAINING
Label for comment 12 [themuse]: Tesco are taking a step in the right direction, stop complaining
Label for comment 21 [Wonkothesane76]: Sarcastically says Tesco should leave the land undeveloped.; Implies people DO NOT want that
Label for comment 45 [Deebles]: Every little does help until they can start building hotels in Mayfair
Label for comment 61 [Wonkothesane76]: It is much better than they leave the land undeveloped. Public gets; what they want and Tesco get what they want.  People were complaining about Tesco last week
Label for comment 71 [Wonkothesane76]: The houses is what people wanted after last issue with Tesco
Label for comment 73 [Wonkothesane76]: They bought land with the money from selling us what we wanted and; are now building things that we want on it (houses) instead of the things we don't want (more Tescos); What is the problem? Doesn't matter who is building homes as long as they are getting built
Label for comment 80 [MickReid]: Free will means you don't have to shop where you don't want to
Label for comment 81 [Cape7441]: Good business decision for Tesco, what is the problem? Good price for selling; as house building development, good publicity.
Label for comment 95 [Wonkothesane76]: After article last week with people demanding Tesco build homes,; people are now unhappy. What do public want?
Label for comment 104 [Wonkothesane76]: Annoyed at complaints

GROUP: Label JOKES, MOCKING TESCO
Label for comment 8 [Maggie Ernest]: Tesco joke about receiving club card points for getting a Tesco house
Label for comment 9 [vikingbones]: Another Tesco joke, offers on housing
Label for comment 10 [ThornburyBoy]: Tesco joke, expensive houses may be in the 'Tesco Finest' jokes about; more expensive shops doing the same
Label for comment 41 [Andrew Maclean]: Tesco slogan, joke
Label for comment 42 [aliasatyl]: Joint on from slogan, Tesco want to get richer
Label for comment 43 [TheseStonesIThrow]: Joke, every little house helps
Label for comment 44 [rockyrex]: Joke, every little house helps
Label for comment 55 [Maggie Ernest]: Joke, are Tesco crazy?
Label for comment 56 [vikingbones]: Joke, about Tesco being crazy
Label for comment 57 [aliasatyl]: Joke, hoping public are not be tricked
Label for comment 58 [aliasatyl]: Joke
Label for comment 79 [NotAgainAgain]: Joke about horsemeat burgers from Tesco

GROUP: Label ACKNOWLEDGES ALL ARGUMENTS, SEES GOOD SIDE
Label for comment 17 [themuse]: Agrees it may be selfish, but Tesco are going the right way about it by helping; people with lack of housing. Agrees housing is getting smaller but sees beauty in a small yard
Label for comment 29 [aquagreen]: Britain has smallest houses in Europe. Many new builds meet minimum; legal requirements. Says any home is better than nothing
Label for comment 33 [Wonkothesane76]: No need for cries over the environment, the article on mentions a; disused factory. Homes are much needed.
Label for comment 46 [reformedoffender]: It won't solve the housing crisis, but every little helps
Label for comment 76 [Wonkothesane76]: People should 'hate' them for the right reasons. They've all taken the; route of small profits from lots of customers, instead of bigger profits from a smaller number; of customers. They are doing what we wanted, whether we forced them or not.
Label for comment 88 [babeldweller]: Tesco is a business, not a charity. Britain is awash with workers who are; desperate for paid work. Tesco can pick them off like cherries from a tree. Why would Tesco do anything; that might compromise its profits?
Label for comment 94 [kimdriver]: If they are not affordable, they will not sell. So they will be affordable.

GROUP: Label TESCO'S LOW WAGES
Label for comment 82 [Lorfarius]: Complaint on staff's low wages, should give houses to them
Label for comment 83 [hashtagthat]: Tesco employees can buy the homes too, with a mortgage
Label for comment 84 [wishyouwerehere]: Impossible to get mortgages on their wages
Label for comment 85 [colinius]: Wonders what is the deal with the issue with wages?
Label for comment 86 [Cape7441]: Why should they offer these to staff?
Label for comment 87 [leansocialist]: Also feels they should build homes for their underpaid staff
Label for comment 89 [wishyouwerehere]: No supermarket pays staff enough
Label for comment 90 [GeoffTr]: They all pay their staff enough i.e, enough to attract & retain the quality &; quantity of staff that they deem necessary
Label for comment 92 [ID581705]: Tesco could build workhouses for their employees and pay them in tokens, to; be spent in local shop

GROUP: Label THE PUBLIC ARE ALLOWING THE PROBLEM
Label for comment 34 [themuse]: Why do people who want larger houses keep buying smaller ones? People; need to decide whether the wait for the right property for them is better than settling for any property; even if not suited to their needs. Stop accepting things that are thrown at us.
Label for comment 36 [themuse]: Some people have never had any instinct to own their own place. ; Nation must make a stand and stop buying things that don't meed requirements
Label for comment 39 [themuse]: Talk of instinct and territoriality is nonsense
Label for comment 40 [aquagreen]: Yes humans mark territories, on walls and fences especially

GROUP: Label MISCELLANEOUS 
Label for comment 31 [JeffersonAirplane]: House with big garden was not in London
Label for comment 37 [aquagreen]: It is silly to deny human territoriality
Label for comment 60 [kimdriver]: Is this a sign that market forces can work? Wonders how much tax Aldi pays
Label for comment 62 [Agit8]: Provides proof of Aldi's tax paying
Label for comment 63 [Wonkothesane76]: Aldi tax
Label for comment 64 [Tim Farrell]: Aldi tax
Label for comment 65 [Reduced]: Aldi tax
Label for comment 66 [Wonkothesane76]: Aldi tax
Label for comment 67 [showmaster]: Aldi staff pay more tax because they are all better paid
Label for comment 77 [johnmperry]: Wonders on figures of houses needed
Label for comment 98 [Deja]: Personal debt loading that got us into trouble in the first place

UNCONSTRAINED SUMMARY

Commenters had mixed opinions on Tesco's housing plans, but the general consensus was that Tesco were planning to build the houses to get back into the public's good books. 
Still though, there were a few big discussions between commenters over whether Tesco's intentions actually mattered. Some commenters were angry and said that Tesco were selfish, only doing this for publicity, but a number of them stated that for the greater good of more housing, Tesco should get the publicity, because that way everybody wins. Some commenters felt it was a good move for Tesco and their earnings and a good use of money, with some saying that Tesco were taking a step in the right direction towards doing the right thing. A few asked fellow commenters what it is they want the supermarket to do to make them feel better.
A lot of commenters used this article to discuss the country's housing crisis and different commenters blamed different factors for the problem. A few went to talk about immigration and discuss whether the Labour party or the Conservative party were to blame. Some blamed the governments' dishonesty for the problem. While others disagreed with the blaming of immigrants and went on to blame private companies for the problem, stating the crisis will continue until private companies are regulated. 
The bulk of people were skeptical of Tesco's intentions and reasons for stockpiling the land in the first place. With many of them joking about an 'empire' or a 'settlement' where only Tesco expresses are allowed. A number of commenters noted the growing competition between the big supermarkets and Aldi was a noted competitor who commenters said Tesco are trying to win customers back from. 
Commenters began to discuss the wages Tesco workers received and how low they were, saying that the people on Tesco's wages would not be able to afford a mortgage, so maybe Tesco should build these houses for them instead. Many of the commenters doubted the affordability of the homes Tesco intend to build.
A big trend in conversation was the downsizing nature of houses in the UK, with most commenters complaining that housing and gardens were too small nowadays.
Yet some commenters felt that the public too, were part of the problem, stating that every need is different and that the public needs to 'stop taking what they are given,' by deciding what kind of house they want, where they want it and whether it's worth waiting for. Some of these commenters noted that houses needed to be small to be affordable.
A few commenters were concerned due to the number of slums and poor housing in the UK also.

CONSTRAINED SUMMARY

Commenters had mixed opinions on Tesco's plans, but the general consensus was that Tesco were building houses to get back into the public's good books. 
There were discussions over whether Tesco's intentions actually mattered. Some commenters said Tesco were selfish and publicity hungry. Others felt that for the greater good, Tesco should get the publicity. Some felt it was a good move for Tesco and a good use of money, with some saying Tesco were taking a step in the right direction towards doing the right thing.
Commenters passionately discussed the country's housing crisis. Some blamed immigration and discussed whether Labour or the Tories were to blame. Others blamed private companies for the problem, stating they need regulating.
Many were skeptical of Tesco's intentions and reasons for stockpiling the land in the first place. A few commenters discussed the competition between supermarkets and Aldi was a noted competitor, saying Tesco were trying to win customers back.
Commenters discussed Tesco workers' 'low wages', saying that their workers can't afford a mortgage, so Tesco should build these houses for them. Many of the commenters doubted the affordability of the homes.
Many said the country's decreasing house sizes barely met standards. Certain commenters stated every housing requirement is different and the public should 'stop taking what they are given' if it is not what they want. Some said houses needed to be small to be affordable and were happy with small homes/gardens in urban areas. A few were wary of slums.

BACK LINKING

Commenters had mixed opinions on Tesco's plans, but the general consensus was that Tesco were building houses to get back into the public's good books.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label SKEPTICAL/UNTRUSTWORTHY OF TESCO'S USE OF MONEY
- GROUP: Label TESCO ARE SELFISH, ONLY WANT TO MAKE MONEY. NO CHARITY/ANYTHING THAT DOESN'T BENEFIT THEM
- SUBGROUP: Label NOBODY LIKES TESCO ANYMORE
- GROUP: Label ACKNOWLEDGES ALL ARGUMENTS, SEES GOOD SIDE

There were discussions over whether Tesco's intentions actually mattered.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label TESCO ARE DOING THE RIGHT THING/ WHY ARE PEOPLE COMPLAINING
- GROUP: Label ACKNOWLEDGES ALL ARGUMENTS, SEES GOOD SIDE

Some commenters said Tesco were selfish and publicity hungry.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label SKEPTICAL/UNTRUSTWORTHY OF TESCO'S USE OF MONEY
- GROUP: Label TESCO ARE SELFISH, ONLY WANT TO MAKE MONEY. NO CHARITY/ANYTHING THAT DOESN'T BENEFIT THEM
- SUBGROUP: Label NOBODY LIKES TESCO ANYMORE

Others felt that for the greater good, Tesco should get the publicity.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label GOOD FOR TESCO
- GROUP: Label TESCO ARE DOING THE RIGHT THING/ WHY ARE PEOPLE COMPLAINING
- GROUP: Label ACKNOWLEDGES ALL ARGUMENTS, SEES GOOD SIDE

Some felt it was a good move for Tesco and a good use of money, with some saying Tesco were taking a step in the right direction towards doing the right thing.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label GOOD FOR TESCO
- GROUP: Label TESCO ARE DOING THE RIGHT THING/ WHY ARE PEOPLE COMPLAINING
- GROUP: Label ACKNOWLEDGES ALL ARGUMENTS, SEES GOOD SIDE

Commenters passionately discussed the country's housing crisis.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- SUBGROUP: Label SLUMS/POOR HOUSING/ENVIRONMENTAL
- GROUP: Label IMMIGRATION IS THE PROBLEM & GOVERNMENT'S FLAWS
- SUBGROUP: Label DISAGREEING WITH IMMIGRATION BLAMING
- GROUP: Label PRIVATE COMPANIES ARE THE PROBLEM
- GROUP: Label HOUSES ARE TOO EXPENSIVE and/or SMALL
- SUBGROUP: Label OFFERS SOLUTION TO HOUSING PROBLEMS

Some blamed immigration and discussed whether Labour or the Tories were to blame.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label IMMIGRATION IS THE PROBLEM & GOVERNMENT'S FLAWS

Others blamed private companies for the problem, stating they need regulating.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label PRIVATE COMPANIES ARE THE PROBLEM

Many were skeptical of Tesco's intentions and reasons for stockpiling the land in the first place.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label SKEPTICAL/UNTRUSTWORTHY OF TESCO'S USE OF MONEY
- GROUP: Label TESCO ARE SELFISH, ONLY WANT TO MAKE MONEY. NO CHARITY/ANYTHING THAT DOESN'T BENEFIT THEM
- GROUP: Label PRIVATE COMPANIES ARE THE PROBLEM

A few commenters discussed the competition between supermarkets and Aldi was a noted competitor, saying Tesco were trying to win customers back.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label TESCO ARE SELFISH, ONLY WANT TO MAKE MONEY. NO CHARITY/ANYTHING THAT DOESN'T BENEFIT THEM
- SUBGROUP: Label NOBODY LIKES TESCO ANYMORE
- GROUP: Label JOKES, MOCKING TESCO

Commenters discussed Tesco workers' 'low wages', saying that their workers can't afford a mortgage, so Tesco should build these houses for them.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label TESCO'S LOW WAGES

Many of the commenters doubted the affordability of the homes.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label SKEPTICAL/UNTRUSTWORTHY OF TESCO'S USE OF MONEY
- GROUP: Label HOUSES ARE TOO EXPENSIVE and/or SMALL
- GROUP: Label TESCO'S LOW WAGES

Many said the country's decreasing house sizes barely met standards.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label HOUSES ARE TOO EXPENSIVE and/or SMALL
- SUBGROUP: Label OFFERS SOLUTION TO HOUSING PROBLEMS

Certain commenters stated every housing requirement is different and the public should 'stop taking what they are given' if it is not what they want.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label ACKNOWLEDGES ALL ARGUMENTS, SEES GOOD SIDE
- GROUP: Label THE PUBLIC ARE ALLOWING THE PROBLEM

Some said houses needed to be small to be affordable and were happy with small homes/gardens in urban areas.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label HOUSES ARE TOO EXPENSIVE and/or SMALL
- SUBGROUP: Label 'AFFORDABLE IS RELATIVE'
- SUBGROUP: Label OFFERS SOLUTION TO HOUSING PROBLEMS

A few were wary of slums.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label SKEPTICAL/UNTRUSTWORTHY OF TESCO'S USE OF MONEY
- SUBGROUP: Label SLUMS/POOR HOUSING/ENVIRONMENTAL
