LABELS

Label for comment 1: England are rubbish
Label for comment 2: England are rubbish -  lucky to get a point at world cup
Label for comment 3: England are rubbish
Label for comment 5: England are rubbish - joke song/chant
Label for comment 6: England had good possession stats
Label for comment 7: England are rubbish - final game does not matter at least
Label for comment 8: England are rubbish
Label for comment 9: Get Sven-Goran Eriksson back - good record of getting to quarter finals
Label for comment 10: Spain had good possession too - but still failed
Label for comment 11: England played attractive football - two of the best matches of the tornament so far
Label for comment 12: England played rubbish - hodgson lisp joke
Label for comment 14: Create a GB team - if Scotland votes independence. Too much money in football, the pride of playing for England has dissappeared. FA needs to nurture home-grown talent, but is incompetent.
Label for comment 15: World Cup better without England - more spririt and patriotism in other teams.
Label for comment 16: England winning the World Cup is only wish/dream
Label for comment 17: Laughs at England's defeat
Label for comment 18: Laughs at England's defeat
Label for comment 19: Joke - blame game
Label for comment 20: Costa Rican players paid a fraction of England stars
Label for comment 21: Nothing to do with money - just an excuse
Label for comment 22: England players overpaid  - poor performance. Costa Rica deserved to win
Label for comment 23: Laughs at England's defeat
Label for comment 24: Laughs at England's defeat
Label for comment 25: Joke - TV replays ruining rhythm of game
Label for comment 26: Football is stupid
Label for comment 28: Enjoy the World Cup more now England are out - less dissappointment
Label for comment 29: Joke - We can back Scotland
Label for comment 30: Enjoy the World Cup more now England are out - less dissappointment
Label for comment 31: Joke - Scotland have the same points as England, Zero
Label for comment 32: Joke - Balotelli wanting kiss from queen if he helps England go through. Italy will lose to Suarez, Uruguay
Label for comment 33: Joke - Ballotelli had more chance of kissing the Qeen than England did of progession from the group stage. Costa Rica have been brilliant. England will get zero points
Label for comment 34: England are rubbish - refuse to support them, only dissappoint
Label for comment 35: Ballotelli kiss from Queen
Label for comment 37: Joke - Ballotelli kiss from Queen
Label for comment 38: England are rubbish - refuse to support them, only dissappoint
Label for comment 39: Costa Rica - underdogs, nobody could have predicted
Label for comment 40: Cost Rica - fantastic achievement,deserve to go through
Label for comment 41: Won a bet on Costa Rica- called it
Label for comment 42: Won a bet on Costa Rica- called it
Label for comment 43: Betting tips
Label for comment 44: Costa Rica - performed very well in qualifiiers, the whole world under-rated them. They South American teams always perform well. Lots of pride.
Label for comment 45: Betting tips
Label for comment 46: FA leadership is pathetic
Label for comment 47: England were star-struck by Pirlo. Game against Italy was the decider
Label for comment 48: Roy Hodgson should get sacked
Label for comment 49: FA supports Roy - Greg Dyke incompetent. Man United performed badly and sacked Moyes to get in LVG - smart move - England should emulate.
Label for comment 50: Joke - David Moyes to manage England
Label for comment 51: Joke - Roy's lisp + play Sterling up front
Label for comment 53: Hodgson should be sacked - but FA supports him - RH is terrible, tacical idiocy and worst coach since Kevin Keegan.
Label for comment 54: Criticse jokes about Roy's speech impediment
Label for comment 55: Joke - speech impediment
Label for comment 56: Joke - speech impediment
Label for comment 57: Criticse jokes about Roy's speech impediment
Label for comment 58: Criticse jokes about Roy's speech impediment
Label for comment 59: Players lack technical abilty - not managaers fault. FA needs an overhaul of English football
Label for comment 60: Worst England performance ever - but team has potential
Label for comment 61: Not managers fault - Players are not good enough
Label for comment 63: English full of excuses - face the facts
Label for comment 64: Managers to blame - England have better players than Costa Rica, but used badly
Label for comment 65: New young team didn't perform any better than their predecessors. Ashley Cole lucky to not have played
Label for comment 67: England players are not good enough - European players are better, more gifted. Power struggle between FA and PL for 20 years. Teams favour forgeign players.
Label for comment 68: English players are not good enough - managers not to blame. Players are not skilled or technicl - just powerful. Overhaul coaching of kids.
Label for comment 69: Pleased that England have been knocked out.
Label for comment 70: Costa Rica - amazing, deserved it.
Label for comment 71: Gerrard is a bad captain
Label for comment 72: Bias to Costa Rica - scored an offside goal
Label for comment 74: Money of TV rights to blame - clubs favour forgeign talent, lack of homegrown talent. SKY and BT to blame - football is not on regular TV anymore. Kids can't watch it
Label for comment 75: Wayne Rooney - pick a best position
Label for comment 76: People played footbll before TV
Label for comment 77: English footballers overpaid, over-ratted and passionless. We're used to dissappointment
Label for comment 78: We're used to dissappointment - no surprise
Label for comment 79: Wayne Rooney - supposedly our best player - but he would never get in the German team
Label for comment 80: Hodgson selected a poor squad
Label for comment 82: The Guardian said England could win the WC
Label for comment 83: Passion - we don't need passion, we need talent and to learn how to pass. Passion is reckless and pointless.
Label for comment 84: Rooney - over-rated by the English
Label for comment 85: FA don't pay the England players much - compared to club wages
Label for comment 86: Passion is needed - United 1999 CL comeback
Label for comment 88: England looked promising at times - but lacked the passion when it mattered
Label for comment 90: Lack of passion - players didnt want to be there. The pressure is too much. We focus on negatives only. But they're proffessionals, should be able to deal with pressure. We are lowering expectations. But at the least, players should show passion.
Label for comment 91: Overhaul of young coaching - Engand need a philosophy and stick to it. Youth teams should be encoriaged to nuture talent, not win games. Belgium prime example. Players are not good enough, but it's the FAs fault. Costa Rica - astonishing.
Label for comment 92: Overhaul never going to happen.
Label for comment 94: Overhaul - people urge overhaul after every dissappointing tornament - never going to happen.
Label for comment 95: FA money-driven - dosen't care about developing young talent. Costa Rica - brilliant
Label for comment 96: Young development crucial - FA needs a better plan
Label for comment 97: Young development crucial
Label for comment 98: Futsal - English players need to develop more skill and technical abilty at young age. Brazil and Spain play futsal.
Label for comment 99: Education is prioritised over sport
Label for comment 100: FA and PL greedy - money driven
Label for comment 101: Youth development crucial - more skill and technical abilty is needed. 5-a-side football neccessary.
Label for comment 103: Youth development crucial - lack of parks for children to play football in - concrete playgrounds etc. More needed
Label for comment 104: More focus needed on sports at young age
Label for comment 107: Youth development is crucial - other countries like Germany have far better attitude and facilities to nurture young talent at grassroots level. England have talented players, but lack footballing intelligence and tactical disclipine. We need good fortune too.

GROUPS

GROUP: The England football team are rubbish as usual + full of excuses
Label for comment 1 [SimonWay]: England are rubbish
Label for comment 2 [ZapataSD]: England are rubbish -  lucky to get a point at world cup
Label for comment 3 [funkyginger]: England are rubbish
Label for comment 5 [SchraderBrau]: England are rubbish - joke song/chant
Label for comment 7 [Sandmaennchen]: England are rubbish - final game does not matter at least
Label for comment 8 [cornyguy]: England are rubbish
Label for comment 12 [korblimey]: England played rubbish - hodgson lisp joke
Label for comment 17 [Prince1407]: Laughs at England's defeat
Label for comment 18 [funkyginger]: Laughs at England's defeat
Label for comment 19 [Capleton]: Joke - blame game
Label for comment 34 [Phil_Porter]: England are rubbish - refuse to support them, only dissappoint
Label for comment 38 [leedonel]: England are rubbish - refuse to support them, only dissappoint
Label for comment 63 [ersatzian]: English full of excuses - face the facts
Label for comment 78 [SchraderBrau]: We're used to dissappointment - no surprise
Label for comment 16 [Worriedmind]: England winning the World Cup is only wish/dream
Label for comment 28 [SchraderBrau]: Enjoy the World Cup more now England are out - less dissappointment
Label for comment 29 [MikeMoonlight]: Joke - We can back Scotland
Label for comment 30 [avidfan]: Enjoy the World Cup more now England are out - less dissappointment
Label for comment 31 [Valfar]: Joke - Scotland have the same points as England, Zero
Label for comment 69 [AdiJazz]: Pleased that England have been knocked out.
Label for comment 47 [brownshoes]: England were star-struck by Pirlo. Game against Italy was the decider
Label for comment 84 [lukasw]: Rooney - over-rated by the English

GROUP: The development of young English talent is inadequate and needs to be overhauled/ other countries produce better talent/ English footballers lack talent and overpaid/overrated/ FA incompetent
Label for comment 46 [CitizenTM]: FA leadership is pathetic
Label for comment 59 [dollishillbilly]: Players lack technical abilty - not managaers fault. FA needs an overhaul of English football
Label for comment 67 [dollishillbilly]: England players are not good enough - European players are better, more gifted. Power struggle between FA and PL for 20 years. Teams favour forgeign players.
Label for comment 68 [Wonkothesane76]: English players are not good enough - managers not to blame. Players are not skilled or technicl - just powerful. Overhaul coaching of kids.
Label for comment 91 [Autonova1]: Overhaul of young coaching - Engand need a philosophy and stick to it. Youth teams should be encoriaged to nuture talent, not win games. Belgium prime example. Players are not good enough, but it's the FAs fault. Costa Rica - astonishing.
Label for comment 92 [BeautfulGame]: Overhaul never going to happen.
Label for comment 94 [CSlater]: Overhaul - people urge overhaul after every dissappointing tornament - never going to happen.
Label for comment 95 [fickleposter]: FA money-driven - dosen't care about developing young talent. Costa Rica - brilliant
Label for comment 96 [Thatingles]: Young development crucial - FA needs a better plan
Label for comment 97 [LaughingGnome]: Young development crucial
Label for comment 98 [chicoscience]: Futsal - English players need to develop more skill and technical abilty at young age. Brazil and Spain play futsal.
Label for comment 99 [BeautfulGame]: Education is prioritised over sport
Label for comment 100 [Cryogenic]: FA and PL greedy - money driven
Label for comment 101 [murdamcloud]: Youth development crucial - more skill and technical abilty is needed. 5-a-side football neccessary.
Label for comment 103 [JohnnyDaPunk]: Youth development crucial - lack of parks for children to play football in - concrete playgrounds etc. More needed
Label for comment 104 [jararaca]: More focus needed on sports at young age
Label for comment 107 [goto100]: Youth development is crucial - other countries like Germany have far better attitude and facilities to nurture young talent at grassroots level. England have talented players, but lack footballing intelligence and tactical disclipine. We need good fortune too.
Label for comment 14 [fulhamfan]: Create a GB team - if Scotland votes independence. Too much money in football, the pride of playing for England has dissappeared. FA needs to nurture home-grown talent, but is incompetent.
Label for comment 74 [BigAndDaft]: Money of TV rights to blame - clubs favour forgeign talent, lack of homegrown talent. SKY and BT to blame - football is not on regular TV anymore. Kids can't watch it
Label for comment 79 [bvbliebe]: Wayne Rooney - supposedly our best player - but he would never get in the German team
Label for comment 65 [ersatzian]: New young team didn't perform any better than their predecessors. Ashley Cole lucky to not have played

GROUP: Roy Hodgson - should be sacked/ is to blame/ jokes about speech impediment
Label for comment 9 [periwinkle27]: Get Sven-Goran Eriksson back - good record of getting to quarter finals
Label for comment 48 [numinous]: Roy Hodgson should get sacked
Label for comment 49 [AbFalsoQuodLibet]: FA supports Roy - Greg Dyke incompetent. Man United performed badly and sacked Moyes to get in LVG - smart move - England should emulate.
Label for comment 50 [Sunburst]: Joke - David Moyes to manage England
Label for comment 51 [SchraderBrau]: Joke - Roy's lisp + play Sterling up front
Label for comment 53 [robinr22]: Hodgson should be sacked - but FA supports him - RH is terrible, tacical idiocy and worst coach since Kevin Keegan.
Label for comment 54 [QuentinSkalawag]: Criticse jokes about Roy's speech impediment
Label for comment 55 [SchraderBrau]: Joke - speech impediment
Label for comment 56 [SchraderBrau]: Joke - speech impediment
Label for comment 57 [Jaktar]: Criticse jokes about Roy's speech impediment
Label for comment 58 [zidanerockingtheboat]: Criticse jokes about Roy's speech impediment
Label for comment 64 [robinr22]: Managers to blame - England have better players than Costa Rica, but used badly
Label for comment 80 [murdamcloud]: Hodgson selected a poor squad
Label for comment 61 [gilesjuk]: Not managers fault - Players are not good enough

GROUP: The England team lack passion and patriotism 
Label for comment 77 [Bliad]: English footballers overpaid, over-ratted and passionless. We're used to dissappointment
Label for comment 83 [Menotti]: Passion - we don't need passion, we need talent and to learn how to pass. Passion is reckless and pointless.
Label for comment 86 [Bliad]: Passion is needed - United 1999 CL comeback
Label for comment 88 [mikeinbrazil]: England looked promising at times - but lacked the passion when it mattered
Label for comment 90 [ID040454]: Lack of passion - players didnt want to be there. The pressure is too much. We focus on negatives only. But they're proffessionals, should be able to deal with pressure. We are lowering expectations. But at the least, players should show passion.
Label for comment 15 [TMGSpurs]: World Cup better without England - more spririt and patriotism in other teams.

GROUP: Congratulations to Costa Rica, they deserved it
Label for comment 20 [unaszplodrmann]: Costa Rican players paid a fraction of England stars
Label for comment 21 [SchraderBrau]: Nothing to do with money - just an excuse
Label for comment 22 [unaszplodrmann]: England players overpaid  - poor performance. Costa Rica deserved to win
Label for comment 39 [Ontariolad]: Costa Rica - underdogs, nobody could have predicted
Label for comment 40 [RedandBlue5]: Cost Rica - fantastic achievement,deserve to go through
Label for comment 41 [AbFalsoQuodLibet]: Won a bet on Costa Rica- called it
Label for comment 42 [Bakwaas]: Won a bet on Costa Rica- called it
Label for comment 44 [coffeekop]: Costa Rica - performed very well in qualifiiers, the whole world under-rated them. They South American teams always perform well. Lots of pride.
Label for comment 70 [Goonerabroad]: Costa Rica - amazing, deserved it.
Label for comment 72 [periwinkle27]: Bias to Costa Rica - scored an offside goal

GROUP: There is hope for English football
Label for comment 6 [CityActuary]: England had good possession stats
Label for comment 11 [John]: England played attractive football - two of the best matches of the tornament so far
Label for comment 60 [GrCl]: Worst England performance ever - but team has potential

GROUP: miscellaneous
Label for comment 25 [IanGoodwin]: Joke - TV replays ruining rhythm of game
Label for comment 26 [keef1980]: Football is stupid
Label for comment 32 [Phil_Porter]: Joke - Balotelli wanting kiss from queen if he helps England go through. Italy will lose to Suarez, Uruguay
Label for comment 33 [RedandBlue5]: Joke - Ballotelli had more chance of kissing the Qeen than England did of progession from the group stage. Costa Rica have been brilliant. England will get zero points
Label for comment 35 [nightschoolteacher]: Ballotelli kiss from Queen
Label for comment 37 [PlatoApesSocrates]: Joke - Ballotelli kiss from Queen
Label for comment 71 [tankerton]: Gerrard is a bad captain
Label for comment 75 [TheCorporal]: Wayne Rooney - pick a best position
Label for comment 76 [joe5000]: People played footbll before TV
Label for comment 82 [Sunburst]: The Guardian said England could win the WC
Label for comment 85 [ersatzian]: FA don't pay the England players much - compared to club wa

UNCONSTRAINED SUMMARY

The vast majority of people were clearly disappointed by England's poor performance at the World Cup. Many said they were "rubbish" and others made jokes about how bad the English football team are. Some said there can be no excuses and others said there is no hope.
 
Many people called for an overhaul of the way young English footballers are nurtured. They blamed the Football Association for an inadequate system which fails to produce players with the technical ability needed to compete with other countries, like Germany or Spain. Some called for a new philosophy to be branded into English football which youth teams can work towards. 

Others blamed the manager, Roy Hodgson, for inadequate tactics which failed to get the best out of his players. Some said he should be sacked and mimicked his speech impediment. One commenter urged former coach, Sven-Goran Eriksson, to be reinstated.

Some commenters said the England team lacked passion and patriotism. They said it should be an honour to represent their country, but the players did not seem to care.

Many praised Costa Rica for their brilliant performance as the underdogs. 

A small minority said there is hope for English football. Some were impressed by England's attacking style of play and thought there is potential in the team.

A few people made jokes about Mario Ballotelli kissing the Queen.

CONSTRAINED SUMMARY

The vast majority of people were clearly disappointed by England's poor performance at the World Cup. Many said they were "rubbish" and others made jokes about how bad the English football team are. Some said there can be no excuses and others said there is no hope.
 
Many people called for an overhaul of the way young English footballers are nurtured. They blamed the Football Association for an inadequate system which fails to produce players with the technical ability needed to compete with other countries, like Germany or Spain. Some called for a new philosophy to be branded into English football which youth teams can work towards. 

Others blamed the manager, Roy Hodgson, for inadequate tactics which failed to get the best out of his players. Some said he should be sacked and mimicked his speech impediment. One commenter urged former coach, Sven-Goran Eriksson, to be reinstated.

Some commenters said the England team lacked passion and patriotism. They said it should be an honour to represent their country, but the players did not seem to care.

Many praised Costa Rica for their brilliant performance as the underdogs. 

A small minority said there is hope for English football. Some were impressed by England's attacking style of play and thought there is potential in the team.

A few people made jokes about Mario Ballotelli kissing the Queen.

BACK LINKING

The vast majority of people were clearly disappointed by England's poor performance at the World Cup.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: The England football team are rubbish as usual + full of excuses

Many said they were "rubbish" and others made jokes about how bad the English football team are. 
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: The England football team are rubbish as usual + full of excuses

Some said there can be no excuses and others said there is no hope.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: The England football team are rubbish as usual + full of excuses

Many people called for an overhaul of the way young English footballers are nurtured.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: The development of young English talent is inadequate and needs to be overhauled/ other countries produce better talent/ English footballers lack talent and overpaid/overrated/ FA incompetent

They blamed the Football Association for an inadequate system which fails to produce players with the technical ability needed to compete with other countries, like Germany or Spain.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: The development of young English talent is inadequate and needs to be overhauled/ other countries produce better talent/ English footballers lack talent and overpaid/overrated/ FA incompetent

Some called for a new philosophy to be branded into English football which youth teams can work towards.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: The development of young English talent is inadequate and needs to be overhauled/ other countries produce better talent/ English footballers lack talent and overpaid/overrated/ FA incompetent

Others blamed the manager, Roy Hodgson, for inadequate tactics which failed to get the best out of his players.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Roy Hodgson - should be sacked/ is to blame/ jokes about speech impediment

Some said he should be sacked and mimicked his speech impediment.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Roy Hodgson - should be sacked/ is to blame/ jokes about speech impediment

One commenter urged former coach, Sven-Goran Eriksson, to be reinstated.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Roy Hodgson - should be sacked/ is to blame/ jokes about speech impediment

Some commenters said the England team lacked passion and patriotism.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: The England team lack passion and patriotism

They said it should be an honour to represent their country, but the players did not seem to care.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: The England team lack passion and patriotism

Many praised Costa Rica for their brilliant performance as the underdogs.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Congratulations to Costa Rica, they deserved it

A small minority said there is hope for English football.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: There is hope for English football

Some were impressed by England's attacking style of play and thought there is potential in the team.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: There is hope for English football

A few people made jokes about Mario Ballotelli kissing the Queen.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: miscellaneous
