LABELS

Label for comment 1: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- he doesn't understand how the Aircraft carrier show why Scotland needs to be part of the UK
Label for comment 2: economical and political dispute in case of indipendence to 1: fighter Aircraft is more expensive than a ship. if Scotland choses indipendence don't expect Uk to support their jobs whilst Salmond proposes to penalises uk students in Scotland and steal jobs from North of england
Label for comment 3: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 1: exactly
Label for comment 4: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation-to 2: contracts go to the best offer.
Label for comment 5: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation-to 4: disagree
Label for comment 6: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 4 again:contracts go to BAE that have shipyards in Scotland and Portsmouth and BAE could allocate to Portsmouth if they want. sarcasm: if you beliefe to Salmond, there will be no negative consequences for voting for indipendence
Label for comment 7: to 6:big projects like that are very expensive and it's not time for that anymore (for Europe as well) (disenchanted)
Label for comment 8: economical and political dispute in case of indipendence to 2:he comments and disagree about Salmond stealing jobs from the uk cutting down corporation tax: an indipendent state can do what it wants, it's just free market. Scotland cannot disadvantage itself and Westminster has to deal with that.
Label for comment 9: to 4:"It's a very sobering feeling to be up in space and realize that one's safety factor was determined by the lowest bidder on a government contract." Alan Shepard
Label for comment 10: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 6: BAE could have allocated contracts in Portsmouth indeed but they didn't, it's true that it can happen in the future but it would be more expensive and incovenient although maybe politically desirable
Label for comment 11: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships- to 2:fighter Aircraft is more expensive than building a ship. to earn money you have to produce a lot of Aircraft and you can only do that by equipping multinational air-forces. BAE SYSTEMs has been rejigging it's business due to reduction of military airframe development and manufacture
Label for comment 12: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 2: Scotland choosing indipendence doesn't change the jobs situation at Rosyth: there are no more MOD contract ship anyway and the Union has nothing more to offer.
Label for comment 13: economical and political dispute in case of indipendence to 8 (going on with discussion)Salmond idea of cutting down corporation tax is outrageous and this can only be damaging. you can also infer that Holyrood is anachronistic
Label for comment 14: warships or not warships- to 4:Not contracts for warships....under EU procurement rules warships are exempt. If we wanted the best price we could buy Arleigh Burkes from the US
Label for comment 15: economical and political dispute in case of indipendence to 13: continuing debate, making the point
Label for comment 16: warships or not warships- to 12: the governament has placed ships for the RFA in South Korea. why Uk support South Korea shipyards but not ours?
Label for comment 17: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 12: I don't mind either way if Scotland votes yes or no, but for Rosyth the outcome is clear as day. A No vote means closure after POW is completed, a Yes votes means a future beyond that.
Label for comment 18: warships or not warships- to 16: no Uk yards bid. they coul have designated them as warships instead of auxiliaries and made them exempt from eu procurement rules. and unless someone make a bid, new RFA ships will be build in South Korea
Label for comment 19: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 10: BA and HMG have been clear that in event of a yes vote the Uk would stop to build ship in Rosyth
Label for comment 20: warships or not warships- to 16: those ships built in South Korea are not warships so it's a red herring.
Label for comment 21: warships or not warships- to 18: warship will be built in the Uk and RFAs are warships (in his opinion. the no-bidder from the Uk is bollocks.
Label for comment 22: warships or not warships- to 20: sarcasm, he thinks that Bangorstue is naive thinking that that ships are not warships
Label for comment 23: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 4: agressivley saying commentor 4 is wrong. the Uk gov choese the Clyde because it was strategically important to keep money and skills within the Uk. if Scotland votes for inidipendence it will no longer qualify for rUk strategic spending. BAe will be paid to modify other docks, as it was paid to modify the docks on the Clyde
Label for comment 24: warships or not warships- whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 21: the no bidder was partly due to capacity in the yards partially due to the fact that the competition was opened up (as they weren't warships), Korean yards are way cheaper. but the design is still British.  Rosyth is finished in the event of a Yes vote, it couldn't compete on warship contracts and it already can't compete on merchant ship building.
Label for comment 25: warships or not warships- whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation-to 22: going back to debate aggressively. If Scotland ceases to be part of the UK, it will lose capital ship orders from the rUK
Label for comment 26: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 19: you are right but apparently Scotland has a plan to remodel Rosyth after indipendence but it's not clear wheather workloads would be smaller or Greater than now.
Label for comment 27: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 12: yes, there are further projects
Label for comment 28: to 22: you can be right if a British yard did want the job
Label for comment 29: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation-to 17: the only hope for Rosyth is to have further work not defence releted.
Label for comment 30: don't use money for defence- to 2: government could spend money on nhs instead of spending it on carriers
Label for comment 31: to 13: blaming commentator to be old.
Label for comment 32: to 10: portsmouth beware, we haven't recovered from the closure of our dockyard
Label for comment 33: to 2: blaming commentator to make groundless statements
Label for comment 34: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 12: agree
Label for comment 35: economical and political dispute in case of indipendence- to 12: you say that union has nothing to offer to Scotland but what Scotland has to offer to uk?
Label for comment 36: economical and political dispute in case of indipendence- to 2: Don't blame Scotland for Uk's mistakes: get yourselves some decent regional parties
Label for comment 37: warships or not warships- to 22: they weren't warships. contract going to Korea is an outrage but if the money was left to BTL they would have spent it on supporting the cultural elite.
Label for comment 38: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 12: disagree. if Scotland remain in the Uk they will have jobs with Royal Navy accordind to the article
Label for comment 39: to 27: are those ships going to be built in Portsmouth or Korea?
Label for comment 40: to 35: what?
Label for comment 41: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 38: those are promises from the tories and we'll have general election soon. so you don't know how is going to win and if they will keep promises.  If they won't build ships outside of the UK why are they building ships in South Korea for the MOD?
Label for comment 42: economical and political dispute in case of indipendence- to 2: disagree, don't confuse competition with nasty nationalism
Label for comment 43: economical and political dispute in case of indipendence- to 13: don't blame Scotland, ask to your MP to take on boards your concernes
Label for comment 44: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 6: dubts on shipyards future anyway
Label for comment 45: to 12: accusing commentator of not reading the article because he said there's no jobs in future and the article says there are.
Label for comment 46: to 44: as above
Label for comment 47: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- these type of ships are built in the uk, the contract is in BAE Scotstoun but if Scotland will vote yes they would move to a domestic UK port
Label for comment 48: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships- Britain produce Aircraft carrier but not planes so it will be obsolete when needed
Label for comment 49: don't use money for defence- to 48: better spend the money on renewable energy sources rather than spend it on a Killing machine
Label for comment 50: what are the Aircrafts and ships for- to 49: aircrafts carriers do humanitary missions more than engagé in warfare
Label for comment 51: what are the Aircrafts and ships for- to 50: sarcasm, the humanitary missions are useless
Label for comment 52: what are the Aircrafts and ships for- to 50: so we are wasting money in Killing machines that cruise around instead of using money for renewable energy
Label for comment 53: to 48: joke on invisible plains
Label for comment 54: to 53: joke on further technology
Label for comment 55: what are the Aircrafts and ships for- to 50: carriers are useless at both
Label for comment 56: to 53: jokes again
Label for comment 57: don't use money for defence- to 52: there's plenty of private investment in renewable energy. defence is a public good. vote labour
Label for comment 58: don't use money for defence- to 57: sarcasm. Labour would keep Aircraft carriers anyway
Label for comment 59: what are the Aircrafts and ships for- who is Sir Zambellas planning to invade now?
Label for comment 60: to 59: which nation?
Label for comment 61: what are the Aircrafts and ships for- to 59: sarcasm, a lot of money spent on a vessel that is obsolete and useless
Label for comment 62: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships-to 61: carrier and escort are not obsolete (SAMPSON radar)
Label for comment 63: to 59 moking Sir Zambellas
Label for comment 64: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships-to 62: yes they are, there are missiles (russian vulkan) designed to take them out. also US fleet recognised the Vulkan danger potential and withdrew.
Label for comment 65: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships- to 64: I would argue seaViper and SAMPSON combination could take out Vulkan.
Label for comment 66: what are the Aircrafts and ships for- to 61: there's no such thing as an anti-ship ballistic missile. but I see your point,  it seems silly building any fighting machine when the enemy will just design something to take it out
Label for comment 67: to 60: agree
Label for comment 68: what are the Aircrafts and ships for- to 62: what targets do you have in mind for carriers since they are built for projection of force and not defence?
Label for comment 69: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships- to 68: yes this carrier can take out a ICBM and because of carriers we have the Falklands back
Label for comment 70: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships- to 68: and they have a 50 year life span
Label for comment 71: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships- going on explaining why everything is evolving fast so you need to continuosly upgrade your equipement
Label for comment 72: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships-
Label for comment 73: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships- to 61: I doubt that a ballistic missile can beat the carriers.
Label for comment 74: what are the Aircrafts and ships for-to 61: he don't think that these ships are a good idea and he is sarcastic with those that think it is
Label for comment 75: what are the Aircrafts and ships for- to 71: sarcasm: Against less high tech adversaries, carriers still have merit.
Label for comment 76: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships-to 69: just because you can pick up ICBM on radar doesn't mean that you are able to take it down.
Label for comment 77: discussing around ethics of Army- sarcasm, Britain,, super killing machine for the rich since 1707, now alienating ourselves further from a global world by having out fingers in all the dirty pies
Label for comment 78: to 77: yawn
Label for comment 79: to77: where do you think all these dirty pies are baked?
Label for comment 80: discussing around ethics of Army-to 77: arguing that Britain is not a Killing machine but instead outlawed slavery and piracy
Label for comment 81: discussing around ethics of Army- to 80: no I meant the pillage of cultures (indians, iraq) and the number of deaths under both world wars
Label for comment 82: discussing around ethics of Army- to 80: Royal Navy was an arm of slavery
Label for comment 83: to 81: aggressive, if you have such contempt for Britain so much why you are living here?
Label for comment 84: to 83:contempt is for policy not for the country
Label for comment 85: discussing around ethics of Army- to 77: list of good things thanks to the Royal Navy
Label for comment 86: discussing around ethics of Army- to 83: I'm Welsh. we don't learn enough in school about the violence and grevious nature of Empire. we must as a culture evolve peacefully or face destruction
Label for comment 87: aesthetics of ships- what are the Aircraft for-  Nice aircraft carrier. Shame about the aircraft.
Label for comment 88: what are the Aircrafts and ships for- to 87: joke: perhaps it should carry elephants
Label for comment 89: aesthetics of ships- to 87: carrier is ugly but is a warship. naming it after the head of state can bring bad luck
Label for comment 90: aesthetics of ships- to 89: HMS Hood is a warship but is beautiful
Label for comment 91: to 90:
Label for comment 92: aesthetics of ships- to 89: disagree, the ship and the name are handsome and so were Bismarck, Tirpitz and Hood
Label for comment 93: to 88: joke: better white
Label for comment 94: A great advert for Scottish Shipbuilding
Label for comment 95: Probably goes backwards only then.
Label for comment 96: When last I looked, Appledore (Babcocks), Hebburn (A&P Tyne), Portsmouth (BAE) and Birkenhead (Cammell Laird) were in England. Scottish components supplied by Rosyth, obviously, and Glasgow (BAE Systems again).
Label for comment 97: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- this piece of crap is precisely why Scotland should vote yes and specialise in cheap anti ship missiles
Label for comment 98: what are the Aircrafts and ships for- to 97: or maybe small and speedy ships or destroyers with drones due to a theory that sees Russia planning to invade and make an independent Scotland part of the Russian Federation
Label for comment 99: what are the Aircrafts and ships for- to 97: who don't know what they are talking about have been saying that aircraft carriers are useless
Label for comment 100: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships-to 99: arguing that technology hasn't moved along since then
Label for comment 101: to 98: you are paranoid
Label for comment 102: to 101: mocking him for grammar misakes
Label for comment 103: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships- to 99: if aircraft of one type are not available now why we can't use an another type of Aircraft?
Label for comment 104: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships-the Harries were sold to the US

GROUPS

GROUP:whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation 

SUBGROUP: NO
Label for comment 1 [Tenthred]: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- he doesn't understand how the Aircraft carrier show why Scotland needs to be part of the UK
Label for comment 3 [davser]: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 1: exactly
Label for comment 4 [TommyG50]: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation-to 2: contracts go to the best offer.
Label for comment 10 [NYorkie]: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 6: BAE could have allocated contracts in Portsmouth indeed but they didn't, it's true that it can happen in the future but it would be more expensive and incovenient although maybe politically desirable
Label for comment 12 [Bulington]: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 2: Scotland choosing indipendence doesn't change the jobs situation at Rosyth: there are no more MOD contract ship anyway and the Union has nothing more to offer.
Label for comment 26 [NYorkie]: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 19: you are right but apparently Scotland has a plan to remodel Rosyth after indipendence but it's not clear wheather workloads would be smaller or Greater than now.
Label for comment 29 [Liesandstats]: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation-to 17: the only hope for Rosyth is to have further work not defence releted.
Label for comment 34 [noamericano]: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 12: agree
Label for comment 41 [Bulington]: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 38: those are promises from the tories and we'll have general election soon. so you don't know how is going to win and if they will keep promises.  If they won't build ships outside of the UK why are they building ships in South Korea for the MOD?
Label for comment 44 [Macky1982]: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 6: dubts on shipyards future anyway
Label for comment 97 [pter1960]: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- this piece of crap is precisely why Scotland should vote yes and specialise in cheap anti ship missiles

SUBGROUP: yes
Label for comment 5 [RabbitLeader]: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation-to 4: disagree
Label for comment 6 [RabbitLeader]: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 4 again:contracts go to BAE that have shipyards in Scotland and Portsmouth and BAE could allocate to Portsmouth if they want. sarcasm: if you beliefe to Salmond, there will be no negative consequences for voting for indipendence
Label for comment 17 [Rudeboy1]: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 12: I don't mind either way if Scotland votes yes or no, but for Rosyth the outcome is clear as day. A No vote means closure after POW is completed, a Yes votes means a future beyond that.
Label for comment 18 [Rudeboy1]: warships or not warships- to 16: no Uk yards bid. they coul have designated them as warships instead of auxiliaries and made them exempt from eu procurement rules. and unless someone make a bid, new RFA ships will be build in South Korea
Label for comment 19 [Rudeboy1]: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 10: BA and HMG have been clear that in event of a yes vote the Uk would stop to build ship in Rosyth
Label for comment 23 [Happytravelling]: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 4: agressivley saying commentor 4 is wrong. the Uk gov choese the Clyde because it was strategically important to keep money and skills within the Uk. if Scotland votes for inidipendence it will no longer qualify for rUk strategic spending. BAe will be paid to modify other docks, as it was paid to modify the docks on the Clyde
Label for comment 24 [Rudeboy1]: warships or not warships- whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 21: the no bidder was partly due to capacity in the yards partially due to the fact that the competition was opened up (as they weren't warships), Korean yards are way cheaper. but the design is still British.  Rosyth is finished in the event of a Yes vote, it couldn't compete on warship contracts and it already can't compete on merchant ship building.
Label for comment 25 [Happytravelling]: warships or not warships- whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation-to 22: going back to debate aggressively. If Scotland ceases to be part of the UK, it will lose capital ship orders from the rUK
Label for comment 27 [ID320158]: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 12: yes, there are further projects
Label for comment 38 [keable68]: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- to 12: disagree. if Scotland remain in the Uk they will have jobs with Royal Navy accordind to the article
Label for comment 47 [MrsTrellice]: whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation- these type of ships are built in the uk, the contract is in BAE Scotstoun but if Scotland will vote yes they would move to a domestic UK port

GROUP:ECONOMICAL AND POLITICAL DISPUTE IN CASE OF INDIPENDENCE
Label for comment 2 [RabbitLeader]: economical and political dispute in case of indipendence to 1: fighter Aircraft is more expensive than a ship. if Scotland choses indipendence don't expect Uk to support their jobs whilst Salmond proposes to penalises uk students in Scotland and steal jobs from North of england
Label for comment 8 [EpicNinjaCowboy]: economical and political dispute in case of indipendence to 2:he comments and disagree about Salmond stealing jobs from the uk cutting down corporation tax: an indipendent state can do what it wants, it's just free market. Scotland cannot disadvantage itself and Westminster has to deal with that.
Label for comment 13 [RabbitLeader]: economical and political dispute in case of indipendence to 8 (going on with discussion)Salmond idea of cutting down corporation tax is outrageous and this can only be damaging. you can also infer that Holyrood is anachronistic
Label for comment 15 [HulloHulot]: economical and political dispute in case of indipendence to 13: continuing debate, making the point
Label for comment 35 [MiddleAgedMod]: economical and political dispute in case of indipendence- to 12: you say that union has nothing to offer to Scotland but what Scotland has to offer to uk?
Label for comment 36 [Johanes]: economical and political dispute in case of indipendence- to 2: Don't blame Scotland for Uk's mistakes: get yourselves some decent regional parties
Label for comment 42 [Stieve]: economical and political dispute in case of indipendence- to 2: disagree, don't confuse competition with nasty nationalism
Label for comment 43 [EpicNinjaCowboy]: economical and political dispute in case of indipendence- to 13: don't blame Scotland, ask to your MP to take on boards your concernes

GROUP: WARSHIP OR NOT WARSHIP
Label for comment 14 [Rudeboy1]: warships or not warships- to 4:Not contracts for warships....under EU procurement rules warships are exempt. If we wanted the best price we could buy Arleigh Burkes from the US
Label for comment 16 [TheGreatRonRafferty]: warships or not warships- to 12: the governament has placed ships for the RFA in South Korea. why Uk support South Korea shipyards but not ours?
Label for comment 20 [Bangorstu]: warships or not warships- to 16: those ships built in South Korea are not warships so it's a red herring.
Label for comment 21 [TheGreatRonRafferty]: warships or not warships- to 18: warship will be built in the Uk and RFAs are warships (in his opinion. the no-bidder from the Uk is bollocks.
Label for comment 22 [TheGreatRonRafferty]: warships or not warships- to 20: sarcasm, he thinks that Bangorstue is naive thinking that that ships are not warships
Label for comment 37 [1649]: warships or not warships- to 22: they weren't warships. contract going to Korea is an outrage but if the money was left to BTL they would have spent it on supporting the cultural elite.

GROUP: DON'T USE MONEY FOR DEFENCE
Label for comment 30 [bumcyk]: don't use money for defence- to 2: government could spend money on nhs instead of spending it on carriers
Label for comment 49 [UncleBacterial]: don't use money for defence- to 48: better spend the money on renewable energy sources rather than spend it on a Killing machine
Label for comment 57 [t1stpragma]: don't use money for defence- to 52: there's plenty of private investment in renewable energy. defence is a public good. vote labour
Label for comment 58 [JimNolan]: don't use money for defence- to 57: sarcasm. Labour would keep Aircraft carriers anywa

GROUP: WHAT ARE THE AIRCRAFTS FOR?
Label for comment 7 [Tenthred]: to 6:big projects like that are very expensive and it's not time for that anymore (for Europe as well) (disenchanted)
Label for comment 50 [t1stpragma]: what are the Aircrafts and ships for- to 49: aircrafts carriers do humanitary missions more than engagé in warfare
Label for comment 51 [regbobsal]: what are the Aircrafts and ships for- to 50: sarcasm, the humanitary missions are useless
Label for comment 52 [JimNolan]: what are the Aircrafts and ships for- to 50: so we are wasting money in Killing machines that cruise around instead of using money for renewable energy
Label for comment 55 [mpeel]: what are the Aircrafts and ships for- to 50: carriers are useless at both
Label for comment 59 [GenHernandez]: what are the Aircrafts and ships for- who is Sir Zambellas planning to invade now?
Label for comment 61 [finneston]: what are the Aircrafts and ships for- to 59: sarcasm, a lot of money spent on a vessel that is obsolete and useless
Label for comment 66 [CitizenMoe]: what are the Aircrafts and ships for- to 61: there's no such thing as an anti-ship ballistic missile. but I see your point,  it seems silly building any fighting machine when the enemy will just design something to take it out
Label for comment 68 [arbitrarynight]: what are the Aircrafts and ships for- to 62: what targets do you have in mind for carriers since they are built for projection of force and not defence?
Label for comment 74 [Spokeydokey]: what are the Aircrafts and ships for-to 61: he don't think that these ships are a good idea and he is sarcastic with those that think it is
Label for comment 75 [paul mullins]: what are the Aircrafts and ships for- to 71: sarcasm: Against less high tech adversaries, carriers still have merit.
Label for comment 87 [RoryH]: aesthetics of ships- what are the Aircraft for-  Nice aircraft carrier. Shame about the aircraft.
Label for comment 88 [asmar]: what are the Aircrafts and ships for- to 87: joke: perhaps it should carry elephants
Label for comment 98 [RonJB]: what are the Aircrafts and ships for- to 97: or maybe small and speedy ships or destroyers with drones due to a theory that sees Russia planning to invade and make an independent Scotland part of the Russian Federation
Label for comment 99 [worksforcommunityorg]: what are the Aircrafts and ships for- to 97: who don't know what they are talking about have been saying that aircraft carriers are useless

GROUP: TECHNICAL AND ECONOMICAL COMMENTS ON AIRCRAFTS AND SHIPS
Label for comment 11 [NYorkie]: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships- to 2:fighter Aircraft is more expensive than building a ship. to earn money you have to produce a lot of Aircraft and you can only do that by equipping multinational air-forces. BAE SYSTEMs has been rejigging it's business due to reduction of military airframe development and manufacture
Label for comment 48 [regbobsal]: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships- Britain produce Aircraft carrier but not planes so it will be obsolete when needed
Label for comment 62 [paul mullins]: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships-to 61: carrier and escort are not obsolete (SAMPSON radar)
Label for comment 64 [DownEast]: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships-to 62: yes they are, there are missiles (russian vulkan) designed to take them out. also US fleet recognised the Vulkan danger potential and withdrew.
Label for comment 65 [paul mullins]: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships- to 64: I would argue seaViper and SAMPSON combination could take out Vulkan.
Label for comment 69 [paul mullins]: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships- to 68: yes this carrier can take out a ICBM and because of carriers we have the Falklands back
Label for comment 70 [paul mullins]: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships- to 68: and they have a 50 year life span
Label for comment 71 [TerribleLyricist]: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships- going on explaining why everything is evolving fast so you need to continuosly upgrade your equipement
Label for comment 72 [Oldgroaner]: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships-
Label for comment 73 [Lysicamus]: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships- to 61: I doubt that a ballistic missile can beat the carriers.
Label for comment 76 [arbitrarynight]: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships-to 69: just because you can pick up ICBM on radar doesn't mean that you are able to take it down.
Label for comment 103 [log55is7404]: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships- to 99: if aircraft of one type are not available now why we can't use an another type of Aircraft?
Label for comment 104 [RonJB]: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships-the Harries were sold to the US
Label for comment 100 [frfintonstack]: technical and economical comments on Aircrafts and ships-to 99: arguing that technology hasn't moved along since then

GROUP: DISCUSSING AROUND ETHICS OF ARMY
Label for comment 77 [UncleBacterial]: discussing around ethics of Army- sarcasm, Britain,, super killing machine for the rich since 1707, now alienating ourselves further from a global world by having out fingers in all the dirty pies
Label for comment 78 [Dadstheman]: to 77: yawn
Label for comment 79 [RichieJames]: to77: where do you think all these dirty pies are baked?
Label for comment 80 [shinsei]: discussing around ethics of Army-to 77: arguing that Britain is not a Killing machine but instead outlawed slavery and piracy
Label for comment 81 [UncleBacterial]: discussing around ethics of Army- to 80: no I meant the pillage of cultures (indians, iraq) and the number of deaths under both world wars
Label for comment 82 [UncleBacterial]: discussing around ethics of Army- to 80: Royal Navy was an arm of slavery
Label for comment 85 [1649]: discussing around ethics of Army- to 77: list of good things thanks to the Royal Navy
Label for comment 86 [UncleBacterial]: discussing around ethics of Army- to 83: I'm Welsh. we don't learn enough in school about the violence and grevious nature of Empire. we must as a culture evolve peacefully or face destruction
Label for comment 84 [personguy]: to 83:contempt is for policy not for the country

GROUP: AESTHETICS OF SHIPS
Label for comment 89 [real tic]: aesthetics of ships- to 87: carrier is ugly but is a warship. naming it after the head of state can bring bad luck
Label for comment 90 [worksforcommunityorg]: aesthetics of ships- to 89: HMS Hood is a warship but is beautiful
Label for comment 92 [Lysicamus]: aesthetics of ships- to 89: disagree, the ship and the name are handsome and so were Bismarck, Tirpitz and Hood

GROUP: JOKES
Label for comment 53 [noamericano]: to 48: joke on invisible plains
Label for comment 54 [james121]: to 53: joke on further technology
Label for comment 56 [regbobsal]: to 53: jokes again
Label for comment 60 [Oldgroaner]: to 59: which nation?

GROUP: PERSONAL ATTACKS TO COMMENTORS OR EMPTY SARCASM
Label for comment 31 [DavidMillipede]: to 13: blaming commentator to be old.
Label for comment 33 [JWil]: to 2: blaming commentator to make groundless statements
Label for comment 39 [Bulington]: to 27: are those ships going to be built in Portsmouth or Korea?
Label for comment 40 [Bulington]: to 35: what?
Label for comment 45 [MrsTrellice]: to 12: accusing commentator of not reading the article becaushe said there's no jobs in future and the article says there are.
Label for comment 83 [mygreatgiddyaunt]: to 81: aggressive, if you have such contempt for Britain so much why you are living here?
Label for comment 101 [FredDibnah]: to 98: you are paranoid
Label for comment 102 [RonJB]: to 101: mocking him for grammar misakes

GROUP: miscellaneous
Label for comment 9 [Idi_Amin]: to 4:"It's a very sobering feeling to be up in space and realize that one's safety factor was determined by the lowest bidder on a government contract." Alan Shepard
Label for comment 28 [Bangorstu]: to 22: you can be right if a British yard did want the job
Label for comment 32 [YoungHarryBlamires]: to 10: portsmouth beware, we haven't recovered from the closure of our dockyard
Label for comment 46 [MrsTrellice]: to 44: as above
Label for comment 67 [foolisholdman]: to 60: agree
Label for comment 91 [real tic]: to 90:
Label for comment 94 [TommyG50]: A great advert for Scottish Shipbuilding
Label for comment 95 [t1stpragma]: Probably goes backwards only then.
Label for comment 96 [Herbgold]: When last I looked, Appledore (Babcocks), Hebburn (A&P Tyne), Portsmouth (BAE) and Birkenhead (Cammell Laird) were in England. Scottish components supplied by Rosyth, obviously, and Glasgow (BAE Systems again).

UNCONSTRAINED SUMMARY

A good amount of comments are about  whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation (22%). half of the comments claims that chosing Indipendence for Scotland would mean loose contracts for warships since Uk wants to keep buiding them within the Union. The other half disagree, mostly because, they say, there are no more contracts in that field anyway.
Then few commentators (6) discuss about how Scotland Indipendence can demage the Uk. There's who  think that lower taxes in Scotland could bring to stealing jobs for north of England and on the other hand someone suggest to separate competition and "nasty nationalism".
Then the comments are more centred on the ships and different issues related to that.
There is a crossfire about the fact that the governament has placed ships for the RFA in South Korea. The debate is about the fact that those are not warships and so they can be offered to the best bidder but someone argues that they are, in fact warships, even if technically they aren't.
Another issue is about what does Britain need aircraft carriers for?(15%). Most of commentors think they are useless and somebody disagrees, saying that they can be used for humanitary missions.
The 15% of comments focus on whether ships and aircrafts are obsolete or not and if they worth the money.
There are few commentors suggesting that the money used for aircraft carriers could be better spent on the nhs or on renewable energy but someone disagree.
Another discussion focuses on Royal Navy and whether it has had more a peacekeeping and defensive role or a "killing machine" (9% of comments).
The 8% of comments are personal attacks to commentors or empty sarcasm, and then we have few comments about the aesthetics of warships and some jokes.

CONSTRAINED SUMMARY

A good amount of comments are about  whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation (22%). Half of the comments claim that chosing Indipendence for Scotland would mean loose contracts for warships. The other half think that there are no more contracts in that field anyway.
Few commentators discuss about how Scotland Indipendence can demage the Uk. There's who think that an indipendent Scotland would steal England's jobs and on the other hand someone suggest to separate competition and "nasty nationalism".
There's a debate abut ships placed from RFA in South Korea: they are not warships so Uk can chose the best bidder but some commentors argue that they are  in fact warships so they could have been done in Uk.
Another issue is about what does Britain need aircraft carriers for?(15%). Most of commentors think they are useless but somebody think that they can be used for humanitary missions.
The 15% of comments focus on whether ships and aircrafts are obsolete or not and if they worth the money.
Few commentors are suggesting that the money used for aircraft carriers could be better spent on the nhs or on renewable energy but someone disagree.
Another discussion focuses on Royal Navy and whether it has had more a peacekeeping and defensive role or a "killing machine" (9% of comments).
The 8% of comments are personal attacks to commentors or empty sarcasm, and then we have few comments about the aesthetics of warships and some jokes.

BACK LINKING

A good amount of comments are about  whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation (22%).
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP:whether or not indipendendence of Scotland would affect Rosyth jobs situation

The other half think that there are no more contracts in that field anyway.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- SUBGROUP: NO

Half of the comments claim that chosing Indipendence for Scotland would mean loose contracts for warships.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- SUBGROUP: yes

There's who think that an indipendent Scotland would steal England's jobs and on the other hand someone suggest to separate competition and "nasty nationalism".
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP:ECONOMICAL AND POLITICAL DISPUTE IN CASE OF INDIPENDENCE

Few commentators discuss about how Scotland Indipendence can demage the Uk.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP:ECONOMICAL AND POLITICAL DISPUTE IN CASE OF INDIPENDENCE

Another issue is about what does Britain need aircraft carriers for?(15%).
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: WHAT ARE THE AIRCRAFTS FOR?

There's a debate abut ships placed from RFA in South Korea: they are not warships so Uk can chose the best bidder but some commentors argue that they are  in fact warships so they could have been done in Uk.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: WARSHIP OR NOT WARSHIP

Most of commentors think they are useless but somebody think that they can be used for humanitary missions.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: WHAT ARE THE AIRCRAFTS FOR?

Few commentors are suggesting that the money used for aircraft carriers could be better spent on the nhs or on renewable energy but someone disagree.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: DON'T USE MONEY FOR DEFENCE

The 15% of comments focus on whether ships and aircrafts are obsolete or not and if they worth the money.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: WHAT ARE THE AIRCRAFTS FOR?

Another discussion focuses on Royal Navy and whether it has had more a peacekeeping and defensive role or a "killing machine" (9% of comments).
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: DISCUSSING AROUND ETHICS OF ARMY

The 8% of comments are personal attacks to commentors or empty sarcasm, and then we have few comments about the aesthetics of warships and some jokes.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: PERSONAL ATTACKS TO COMMENTORS OR EMPTY SARCASM
