LABELS

Label for comment 1: climate change natural: climate change is not due to pollution, global warming is a natural process that's going to take us to another ice age.
Label for comment 2: climate change: does not agree with 1st commentor, climate change, highest temperature over global land and ocean surfaces in the last years.
Label for comment 3: climate change natural: 1 commentor replied to 2 commentor, confirming his theory that global warming is going to end with another ice age.
Label for comment 4: climate change: 2 commentor replied to 1, climate change and there are many scientific studies to confirm that theory.
Label for comment 5: climate change: sarcastic comment to commentor 1, the theory that climate change naturally is a banal comment.
Label for comment 6: climate change natural: commentor 1 says that since Pleistocene there have been a whole series of ice ages separeted by interglacial warm periods.
Label for comment 7: climate change natural: commentor 1 replied to 5, confirming his opinion that things have been getting warmer for the last 12,000 years.
Label for comment 8: climate change: doen't agree to commentor 1,another ice age is not possible as Astronomical calculation indicated and after 1900 the overall decline in temperature sharply reversed.
Label for comment 9: climate change: climate change is man-made, global warming is reaching and passing through the warmest levels in the last 12,000 years.
Label for comment 10: irrelevant:
Label for comment 11: climate change: not agree with commentor 1, accept the fact that climate change, and implementing solution.
Label for comment 12: climate change: not agree with commentor 2, comparing should be made between the last 90 yesrs, not in 4 years.
Label for comment 13: irrelevant:
Label for comment 14: climate change: the commentor says that earth is in an interglacial age because of the ice cups on Antartica and Greenland, so we're in a warmer period.
Label for comment 15: cons denialist: sarcastic, not informed.
Label for comment 16: denialist: the contention that mans contribution "is very likely" is poor science.
Label for comment 17: cons denialist: insult to commentor 1:
Label for comment 18: irrelevant:
Label for comment 19: climate change: there is an excess of co2, proved by missions, which is entirely of our making, so that's warming the planet.
Label for comment 20: climate change: is political matter that allow to manage big amount of money.
Label for comment 21: climate change: global warming is clearly due to the enhanced of industrial co2, that process started in about 1600 and has accelerated since the second half of the 20th century.
Label for comment 22: irrelevant: the article is irrelevant, denialist.
Label for comment 23: climate change: there is clear evidence of climate change and global warming. denialists reinterpret and cherry pick the data to suit their purposes, cites the anomalous data gathered during the laste solar cycles as evidence that the accelerated warming phase is back on track.
Label for comment 24: climate change: he agrees with the article,there are serious problems that are going to impact the enviroment, the solution could be a forward planning to prevent upcoming events.
Label for comment 25: irrelevant:
Label for comment 26: irrelevant:
Label for comment 27: cons denialist: conservative thought.
Label for comment 28: climate change: he submits an article about global warming and increase of temperature from 1998.
Label for comment 29: climate change: he points out as evidence of global warming the decreasing of Artic and Antartic ice sea.
Label for comment 30: climate change: he believes in scientist.
Label for comment 31: cons denialist: he suggest to bring cites, a evidence at least.
Label for comment 32: irrelevant:
Label for comment 33: irrelevant:
Label for comment 34: climate change: scientist and their informations are a resourse, they don't have to be mocked by denialist and their blogs that's looks like fiction.
Label for comment 35: pro climate change: sarcastic.
Label for comment 36: pro climate change: sarcastic.
Label for comment 37: pro climate change: inform yourself, read books.
Label for comment 38: irrelvant:
Label for comment 39: climate change: conservatives related with denialist
Label for comment 40: climate change: pro climate change group of study, and suggestion to sort out the vitriol problem that come from corporations and financiers.
Label for comment 41: cons article: sarcastic, article not credible.
Label for comment 42: climate not change: the article and scientist has just got theories, there is no evidence of climate change, authorities are managing in a bad way the matter, cheating and commanding people.
Label for comment 43: climate change: people are uninformed, cons denialist.
Label for comment 44: climate change: people are uninformed, cons denialist.
Label for comment 45: climate change: scientist can be wrong but they can identify at what point weather system changed to alter the prediction.
Label for comment 46: climate change: there are many evidences that climat e change, the loss of tonnes of ice each decade from the Antartic and Greenland ice shelves,glacier on the planet is in full retreat,in Australia, the exacerbation of drought conditions has been linked by careful research and detailed meteorological observations to a change in Southern Ocean currents and wind systems, so
Label for comment 47: irrelevant:
Label for comment 48: irrelevant:
Label for comment 49: climate change: cons denialist culture.
Label for comment 50: climate change: cons denialist.
Label for comment 51: climate change is not a problem: global warming could be seen as positive, whether natural or man made there shouldn't be any worries, just build better infrastructure, that can be managed like any other risk.
Label for comment 52: climate change: Renewable Energy infrastructure?
Label for comment 53: cons denialist: insult, conservatives ideologues.
Label for comment 54: climate change:cons denialist, climate changes by natural means, but there are serious consequences that are damaging our daily life, costs, bills, healt.
Label for comment 55: climate change: political problem, nobody understand or that that problem seriously.
Label for comment 56: cons denialists: impossible don't agree with the mojority of scientist, a soltution could be renewable sources of energy whether deny science or not.
Label for comment 57: cons denialists: impossible to reject years of research and data, denialist rejects science but they take advantage of it.
Label for comment 58: irrelevant: sarcastic, cons denialist.
Label for comment 59: climate change: suggestion to read a thesis about cambon tax, political matters to protect carbon energy.
Label for comment 60: climate change: it is political matter, carbon fossil is dangerous as cigarettes and there are same interests by political and companies.
Label for comment 61: climate change: he criticizes political investiment made on school chaplains instead of scientific research organisations.
Label for comment 62: cons denialists: no credibility based on research, just 1 of 9,136 recent peer-reviewed research authors rejects global warming.
Label for comment 63: cons denialists: non compliant scientific method.
Label for comment 64: irrelevant:
Label for comment 65: irrelevant:
Label for comment 66: irrelevant:
Label for comment 67: irrelevant:
Label for comment 68: irrelevant:
Label for comment 69: climate change: there will be a big impact on all countries, sea level rising, many areas being devastated by the drying out of large areas including Australia, tropical deseases, believing or not climate change will occur and will impact the planet.
Label for comment 70: cons climate change: he does't believe that climate changes, proving that recently there has been coldest temperature in 103 years.
Label for comment 71: climate change: cons commentor 16.
Label for comment 72: cons denialists: insult.
Label for comment 73: cons denialists: cons commentor 16.
Label for comment 74: cons denialists: cons commentor 16.
Label for comment 75: climate change skeptical: he thinks the real problem from health is obesity, inactivity, and smoking than climate change.
Label for comment 76: cons denialist:insult.
Label for comment 77: climate change: pesticides, fertilizers, phosphorus, mechanization are responsable of climate changes and pollutiion.
Label for comment 78: climate change:the temperature climbs, the seas rise meter after meter, the temperature climbs higher, those are the real problems for people.
Label for comment 79: cons denialists: cons commentor 17
Label for comment 80: global warming denialist: global warming is a lie.
Label for comment 81: climate change: cons commentor 18, climate change cause deseases dengue, malaria, swamp fever.
Label for comment 82: cons denialists: sarcastic.
Label for comment 83: cons denialists: insult.
Label for comment 84: climate change: fossil fuel industry responsable for climate change.
Label for comment 85: cons denialist: insult.
Label for comment 86: climate change: human wouldn't be able to adapt to any possible warming because it is going to cause several deseases, and power demand would be unaffordable.
Label for comment 87: climate change: rising temperature caused big problems for healt, there is a need to keep temperature in the norm.
Label for comment 88: irrelevant:
Label for comment 89: irrelevant:
Label for comment 90: climate change: supporting the article and scientist that are working on global warming, doen't trust of politics to support this think tank.
Label for comment 91: irrelevant:
Label for comment 92: cons denialist:
Label for comment 93: climate changes: car and pollution are responsables of climate changes.
Label for comment 94: climate changes: politics , technocrats, are doing nothing about climate changes, so democracy and with citizen initiative, action becomes possible to  sort out the problem.
Label for comment 95: climate changes: it needs more care for the planet and a low carbon economy.
Label for comment 96: climate change: it's governament fault, governament doen't realize climate change.
Label for comment 97: climate change: research and policy should be properly funded, government is failing in it's most basic duties of care.
Label for comment 98: cons denialists: insult.
Label for comment 99: irrelevant:
Label for comment 100: cons denialists: they have no argument.

GROUPS

GROUP: 1 (45 commentors) climate change:
Label for comment 2 [Wobbly]: climate change: does not agree with 1st commentor, climate change, highest temperature over global land and ocean surfaces in the last years.
Label for comment 4 [Wobbly]: climate change: 2 commentor replied to 1, climate change and there are many scientific studies to confirm that theory.
Label for comment 5 [Strollinby]: climate change: sarcastic comment to commentor 1, the theory that climate change naturally is a banal comment.
Label for comment 8 [JJRichardson]: climate change: doen't agree to commentor 1,another ice age is not possible as Astronomical calculation indicated and after 1900 the overall decline in temperature sharply reversed.
Label for comment 9 [Wobbly]: climate change: climate change is man-made, global warming is reaching and passing through the warmest levels in the last 12,000 years.
Label for comment 11 [chinaplatemate]: climate change: not agree with commentor 1, accept the fact that climate change, and implementing solution.
Label for comment 12 [ACTANE]: climate change: not agree with commentor 2, comparing should be made between the last 90 yesrs, not in 4 years.
Label for comment 14 [JBowers]: climate change: the commentor says that earth is in an interglacial age because of the ice cups on Antartica and Greenland, so we're in a warmer period.
Label for comment 19 [celsius233]: climate change: there is an excess of co2, proved by missions, which is entirely of our making, so that's warming the planet.
Label for comment 20 [DoomGlitter]: climate change: is political matter that allow to manage big amount of money.
Label for comment 21 [Alpo88]: climate change: global warming is clearly due to the enhanced of industrial co2, that process started in about 1600 and has accelerated since the second half of the 20th century.
Label for comment 23 [Alpo88]: climate change: there is clear evidence of climate change and global warming. denialists reinterpret and cherry pick the data to suit their purposes, cites the anomalous data gathered during the laste solar cycles as evidence that the accelerated warming phase is back on track.
Label for comment 24 [PaulRobert1]: climate change: he agrees with the article,there are serious problems that are going to impact the enviroment, the solution could be a forward planning to prevent upcoming events.
Label for comment 28 [SirGeo]: climate change: he submits an article about global warming and increase of temperature from 1998.
Label for comment 29 [Alpo88]: climate change: he points out as evidence of global warming the decreasing of Artic and Antartic ice sea.
Label for comment 30 [Glamorpig]: climate change: he believes in scientist.
Label for comment 34 [Wobbly]: climate change: scientist and their informations are a resourse, they don't have to be mocked by denialist and their blogs that's looks like fiction.
Label for comment 35 [Strollinby]: climate change: sarcastic.
Label for comment 36 [Abbott IsGone]: climate change: sarcastic.
Label for comment 37 [mrfunbro]: pro climate change: inform yourself, read books.
Label for comment 39 [DoomGlitter]: climate change: conservatives related with denialist
Label for comment 40 [20reeds]: climate change: pro climate change group of study, and suggestion to sort out the vitriol problem that come from corporations and financiers.
Label for comment 43 [JJRichardson]: climate change: people are uninformed, cons denialist.
Label for comment 44 [LeagueOfNervousFish]: climate change: people are uninformed, cons denialist.
Label for comment 45 [mrfunbro]: climate change: scientist can be wrong but they can identify at what point weather system changed to alter the prediction.
Label for comment 46 [celsius233]: climate change: there are many evidences that climat e change, the loss of tonnes of ice each decade from the Antartic and Greenland ice shelves,glacier on the planet is in full retreat,in Australia, the exacerbation of drought conditions has been linked by careful research and detailed meteorological observations to a change in Southern Ocean currents and wind systems.
Label for comment 49 [R_Ambrose_Raven]: climate change: cons denialist culture.
Label for comment 50 [SirGeo]: climate change: cons denialist.
Label for comment 54 [travellersjoy]: climate change:cons denialist, climate changes by natural means, but there are serious consequences that are damaging our daily life, costs, bills, healt.
Label for comment 55 [ID1106291]: climate change: political problem, nobody understand or that that problem seriously.
Label for comment 59 [SailorMoon]: climate change: suggestion to read a thesis about cambon tax, political matters to protect carbon energy.
Label for comment 61 [R_Ambrose_Raven]: climate change: he criticizes political investiment made on school chaplains instead of scientific research organisations.
Label for comment 69 [PaulRobert1]: climate change: there will be a big impact on all countries, sea level rising, many areas being devastated by the drying out of large areas including Australia, tropical deseases, believing or not climate change will occur and will impact the planet.
Label for comment 71 [GnuPatterson]: climate change: cons commentor 16.
Label for comment 77 [Jaget santos]: climate change: pesticides, fertilizers, phosphorus, mechanization are responsable of climate changes and pollutiion.
Label for comment 78 [holoscenic]: climate change:the temperature climbs, the seas rise meter after meter, the temperature climbs higher, those are the real problems for people.
Label for comment 81 [wdberg12155]: climate change: cons commentor 18, climate change cause deseases dengue, malaria, swamp fever.
Label for comment 84 [redaussie]: climate change: fossil fuel industry responsable for climate change.
Label for comment 86 [R_Ambrose_Raven]: climate change: human wouldn't be able to adapt to any possible warming because it is going to cause several deseases, and power demand would be unaffordable.
Label for comment 87 [DenisPC9]: climate change: rising temperature caused big problems for healt, there is a need to keep temperature in the norm.
Label for comment 90 [Ronnie2014]: climate change: supporting the article and scientist that are working on global warming, doen't trust of politics to support this think tank.
Label for comment 93 [icepakk1]: climate change: car and pollution are responsables of climate changes.
Label for comment 95 [Treefern]: climate change: it needs more care for the planet and a low carbon economy.

SUBGROUP: (4 commentors)climate change and politics:
Label for comment 94 [alloomis]: climate change: politics , technocrats, are doing nothing about climate changes, so democracy and with citizen initiative, action becomes possible to  sort out the problem.
Label for comment 96 [Withnall]: climate change: it's governament fault, governament doen't realize climate change.
Label for comment 97 [ops2048]: climate change: research and policy should be properly funded, government is failing in it's most basic duties of care.
Label for comment 60 [lstorey]: climate change: it is political matter, carbon fossil is dangerous as cigarettes and there are same interests by political and companies.

GROUP:2 (4 commentors) climate change natural:
Label for comment 1 [MysteryTor]: climate change natural: climate change is not due to pollution, global warming is a natural process that's going to take us to another ice age.
Label for comment 3 [MysteryTor]: climate change natural: 1 commentor replied to 2 commentor, confirming his theory that global warming is going to end with another ice age.
Label for comment 6 [MysteryTor]: climate change natural: commentor 1 says that since Pleistocene there have been a whole series of ice ages separeted by interglacial warm periods.
Label for comment 7 [MysteryTor]: climate change natural: commentor 1 replied to 5, confirming his opinion that things have been getting warmer for the last 12,000 years.

SUBGROUP: climate not change:
Label for comment 16 [DougofArmidale]: climate not change: the contention that mans contribution "is very likely" is poor science.
label for comment 22 [DougofArmidale] climate not change: the article is irrelevant, denialist.
Label for comment 41 [Strollinby]: climate not change: sarcastic, article not credible.
Label for comment 42 [ACTANE]: climate not change: the article and scientist has just got theories, there is no evidence of climate change, authorities are managing in a bad way the matter, cheating and commanding people.
Label for comment 70 [GoredToDeath]: cons climate change: he does't believe that climate changes, proving that recently there has been coldest temperature in 103 years.
Label for comment 80 [123mot]: global warming denialist: global warming is a lie.
Label for comment 51 [john_lucas]: climate change is not a problem: global warming could be seen as positive, whether natural or man made there shouldn't be any worries, just build better infrastructure, that can be managed like any other risk.
Label for comment 52 [mrfunbro]: climate change: Renewable Energy infrastructure?
Label for comment 75 [ianhassall]: climate change skeptical: he thinks the real problem from health is obesity, inactivity, and smoking than climate change.

GROUP: 3 (14 commentors)cons denialists:
Label for comment 15 [LeagueOfNervousFish]: cons denialist: sarcastic, not informed.
Label for comment 17 [travellersjoy]: cons denialist: insult to commentor 1:
Label for comment 27 [DoomGlitter]: cons denialist: conservative thought.
Label for comment 31 [Glamorpig]: cons denialist: he suggest to bring cites, a evidence at least.
Label for comment 53 [DoomGlitter]: cons denialist: insult, conservatives ideologues.
Label for comment 56 [mrfunbro]: cons denialists: impossible don't agree with the mojority of scientist, a soltution could be renewable sources of energy whether deny science or not.
Label for comment 57 [Jools12]: cons denialists: impossible to reject years of research and data, denialist rejects science but they take advantage of it.
Label for comment 58 [PaulRobert1]: irrelevant: sarcastic, cons denialist.
Label for comment 62 [ID9345255]: cons denialists: no credibility based on research, just 1 of 9,136 recent peer-reviewed research authors rejects global warming.
Label for comment 63 [DougofArmidale]: cons denialists: non compliant scientific method.
Label for comment 72 [DoomGlitter]: cons denialists: insult.
Label for comment 73 [ozzoid]: cons denialists: cons commentor 16.
Label for comment 74 [Glamorpig]: cons denialists: cons commentor 16.
Label for comment 100 [holoscenic]: cons denialists: they have no argument.

UNCONSTRAINED SUMMARY

The majority of comments agree that climate change is a problem and that more research is needed. They express their concerns about the consequences that it would cause to human health and the planet, foreseeing tropical illnesses, drought and natural disasters caused by rising sea levels. They often cite the melting of the polar ice caps as evidence. A smaller group do agree with the article but blame oil companies and the unrestrained exploitation of fossil fuels for global warming. A secondary cause is seen as individuals using energy sources without asking where they come from or how they are generated. Another minority group blame the politicians and technocrats, that do not want to invest in renewable energy and scientific research, for pollution and environmental catastrophes. However, they sustain that global warming is a natural process that will begin and end with the next ice age. Many say that the scientific data is unreliable and useless. An even smaller group of commenters does not ascribe climate change to human actions, instead seeing the process as part of a natural cycle. Many of the comments are directed against the climate change deniers, labelling them "denialists" and purporting that they do not have enough facts or data to back up their opinions. Very few commenters believe that climate change is not a serious problem and propose that it would be possible to counteract it with the right technology. Or they believe that global warming could be a positive phenomenon that makes life more pleasant.

CONSTRAINED SUMMARY

The majority agree that climate change is a problem and that more research is needed. They express their concerns about the consequences that it would cause to human health and the planet, foreseeing tropical illnesses, drought and natural disasters caused by rising sea levels. They often cite the melting of the polar ice caps as evidence. A smaller group do agree with the article but blame oil companies and the unrestrained exploitation of fossil fuels for global warming. A secondary cause is seen as individuals using energy sources without asking where they come from or how they are generated. Another minority group blame the politicians and technocrats, that do not want to invest in renewable energy and scientific research, for pollution and environmental catastrophes. However, they sustain that global warming is a natural process that will begin and end with the next ice age. Many say that the scientific data is unreliable and useless. A smaller group of commenters does not ascribe climate change to human actions, instead seeing the process as part of a natural cycle. Many of the comments are directed against the climate change deniers, labelling them "denialists" and purporting that they do not have enough facts or data to back up their opinions. Very few commenters believe that climate change is not a serious problem and propose that it would be possible to counteract it with the right technology. Or they believe that global warming could be a positive phenomenon that makes life more pleasant.

BACK LINKING

The majority agree that climate change is a problem and that more research is needed.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: 1 (45 commentors) climate change:

They often cite the melting of the polar ice caps as evidence.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: 1 (45 commentors) climate change:

A smaller group do agree with the article but blame oil companies and the unrestrained exploitation of fossil fuels for global warming.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- SUBGROUP: (4 commentors)climate change and politics:

A secondary cause is seen as individuals using energy sources without asking where they come from or how they are generated.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: 1 (45 commentors) climate change:

Another minority group blame the politicians and technocrats, that do not want to invest in renewable energy and scientific research, for pollution and environmental catastrophes.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- SUBGROUP: (4 commentors)climate change and politics:

Many say that the scientific data is unreliable and useless.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- SUBGROUP: climate not change:

A smaller group of commenters does not ascribe climate change to human actions, instead seeing the process as part of a natural cycle.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP:2 (4 commentors) climate change natural:

Many of the comments are directed against the climate change deniers, labelling them "denialists" and purporting that they do not have enough facts or data to back up their opinions.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- SUBGROUP: climate not change:
- GROUP: 3 (14 commentors)cons denialists:

Very few commenters believe that climate change is not a serious problem and propose that it would be possible to counteract it with the right technology.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- SUBGROUP: climate not change:

Or they believe that global warming could be a positive phenomenon that makes life more pleasant.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- SUBGROUP: climate not change:

However, they sustain that global warming is a natural process that will begin and end with the next ice age.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP:2 (4 commentors) climate change natural:
- SUBGROUP: climate not change:

They express their concerns about the consequences that it would cause to human health and the planet, foreseeing tropical illnesses, drought and natural disasters caused by rising sea levels.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: 1 (45 commentors) climate change:
