LABELS

Label for comment 1: older workers will have mortgage paid off to there is less incentive to earn off. They won't feel worse off at all
Label for comment 2: Started work in the 70s and feel worse off. Has appropriate qualifications and thinks they will never retire. Got mortgage in 2006, LinkedIn shows employers prefer younger people for roles. Is earning less now that in 1990.
Label for comment 3: Against the idea people 'choose' not to be richer in response to the 'less incentive' comment
Label for comment 4: People used to sleep less due to work
Label for comment 5: Given the choice they'd work more and earn more. Having mortgage paid off means he/she can stay in my home though its a struggle. May have to sell
Label for comment 6: Not all older workers own homes, a lot of us have the costs of adult kids living at home or are using retirement savings to get own home. Many homeowners have seen their wages eaten up my inflation. All young and old are in the same boat.
Label for comment 7: Stop polarising (same person in first comment), there is more to cost of living than just wages. Housing costs are crucial. 'm simply saying that because their housing costs will generally be lower than a younger person buying today
Label for comment 8: Sarcastically says the poor choose to be poor
Label for comment 9: If everyone chose to be rich, the economy would "grind to a half"
Label for comment 10: Sarcastically jokes about lifetime savings being stolen
Label for comment 11: First commenter did not "digest the article"
Label for comment 12: Some people didn't retire, as article says, some of us got made redundant
Label for comment 13: Many retired are living off pension and downsizing to make ends meet. Others are building debts on 0% credit cards
Label for comment 14: (first commenter) We don't have a choice with what family we're born into but we do about our future. Anyone in this country can earn a decent standard or living so they're not poor
Label for comment 15: says this article suggests that whilst housing may be more expensive, later generations have had greater earnings though many chose to spend on consumer goods instead of housing
Label for comment 16: Thinks that is rubbish
Label for comment 17: The big difference a decade of low interest rates and no chance of them rising soon. Those buying houses in the north have a great deal thats why mortgages are less than rents. Interest rates were better in the 70s
Label for comment 18: The price of the house would be fraction it was now,  incomes were often rising by double digits too, so the mortgage burden was greatly reduced after just 4-5 years. Today, house prices are high, interest rates as low as they'll get, and salary growth is almost non-existent
Label for comment 19: Agrees with above comment
Label for comment 20: Nice to see two people agree
Label for comment 21: Cannot see how this works out
Label for comment 22: ??
Label for comment 23: Some adults make the right choices while some make the wrong choices. Stop blaming external forces
Label for comment 24: Joke
Label for comment 25: Life is not simple, not just about making wrong choices
Label for comment 26: Argues people are in fact challenging the status quo
Label for comment 27: Disagrees with the "right and wrong choices" argument. Grew up in a poor family and says some choices are forced on you.
Label for comment 28: Sarcastically jokes about blaming the less fortunate for their own problems
Label for comment 29: if you're born into wealth then you'll more than likely end up wealthy.
Label for comment 30: ???
Label for comment 31: Good luck affects most people in two ways. One group hide their good luck to feel like the unlucky deserve that bad luck and can keep winnings guilt-free, second group don't even know their lucky but think they are great. Tories are the first group
Label for comment 32: Sarcastic joke over the "choices" remark
Label for comment 33: Making choices is often about luck, good or bad, and less to do with having a superior mindset
Label for comment 34: Some consider retirement, others have retirement forced upon them.
Label for comment 35: Sarcastic remark about older people being made redundant. Was made redundant (twice in late 50s) had house paid for, no credit card bills and kids are financially independent. Early pension covers enough.
Label for comment 36: Joke about builder finishing the pool
Label for comment 37: People need to get out of your cosy world and look beyond your parents that you envy so much.
Label for comment 38: Don't you understand irony?
Label for comment 39: The value of pensions has reduced
Label for comment 40: Joke
Label for comment 41: Pensions aren't covered by TUPE in the sense that the new employer isn't compelled to offer the same kind of scheme as the old one (although there are minimum standards), but your accrued rights in the old scheme can't be reduced.
Label for comment 42: Enquires about university fees
Label for comment 43: As only about 3-5% of people born in 70s (???) went to uni it isnt really relevant as a group.
Label for comment 44: Article ignores the free education they were able to enjoy and the "free money" in the form of hiked property value
Label for comment 45: What are you saying?
Label for comment 46: Back then so many scientists and doctors got to go to university for free and now people are leaving with 30k+ debt
Label for comment 47: University education was never free. Grants were mean tested. Rejects the debt burden on current University students
Label for comment 48: Only grants were means tested and rather loosely at that, but there was no tuition fee. Graduates now leave university with a large debt which will have to be paid for from their earnings.
Label for comment 49: House is more expensive to buy now than it would have been in 70s
Label for comment 50: Tuition costs should be paid by the tax payer , everybody should go to university ,except if your just an ordinary worker, then you should just pay.
Label for comment 51: Tuition costs should be paid by the tax payer if the course studied is of benefit to the taxpayer
Label for comment 52: Not sure about the article seeing as though workers who started in 1970 can retire at an age far lower than workers from 1995
Label for comment 53: Argues the retirement age gap is not very big at all
Label for comment 54: "Unfairly" sanctioned by the jobcentre over christmas 2012, has worked for 41 years. Little house is fully paid off but will make no money on it. State pension delayed 2 years
Label for comment 55: People make their own pension contributions?
Label for comment 56: Compares state pensions to private pensions. Its time the taxpayer was let off the hook, in terms of pensions.
Label for comment 57: Women are screwed by marital breakdown, especially if they have children. Argues unless your daughter's student loans were from a bank you shouldn't have paid them off
Label for comment 58: I could have started work in 1995: my state pension age is currently 68, but with the likely increases in longevity I expect it to be 70 by the time I get there. Anyone with pension savings can access them from age 55, not just the public sector.
Label for comment 59: Wishes good luck to the mother/father who worked for 41 years, says she/he deserves a break.
Label for comment 60: My trajectory is pretty typical of the times in question
Label for comment 61: Attitudes to promotion of women were far different then than today
Label for comment 62: Says their house would have costed a tiny fraction in 1975 of what it does now. People referred to in the article "do not have my sympathy."
Label for comment 63: Don't blame me for bad house prices
Label for comment 64: says a young family with a mortgage today has more money worries than someone nearing retirement with a reduced wage
Label for comment 65: Only if they've actually paid their mortgage off and they aren't also taking the role of 'the bank of Mum and Dad' as many of us are.
Label for comment 66: Says a young family with a mortgage in the '70s had just the same worries as their equivalents today
Label for comment 67: Says the 3 bed apartment he/she grew up in he/she would now never be able to afford until he/she is twice the age his/her parents were when they had a family
Label for comment 68: Thatcher brought in the the Right To Buy in the 80s, not the 70s
Label for comment 69: Sarcastically says people who started work in the 70s will of course not be buying homes in the 80s (yes they will)
Label for comment 70: Says their house bought in 1979 for 11750 is now worth just 125000
Label for comment 71: Says their mortgage was a lot lower relative to income, and they consumed less.
Label for comment 72: Says it's a bed of your own collective making, the having to support adult children. While you whine about working at 60, my generation doesn't entertain the merest expectation of retiring before 75.
Label for comment 73: Says above whining shows the person doesn't deserve anything better than retiring before 75 and dementia
Label for comment 74: The reality is that proportionally speaking very few benefited from RTB and most who did had paid rent on their council house for many years that was the equivalent of what a mortgage payment would have been. Says person complaining about 3 bed house price now has an 'over developed sense of entitlement'
Label for comment 75: Sarcastically says above sounds lovely
Label for comment 76: 3 bed man says he has no sense of entitlement. He was brought up in an environment that tells me I deserve nothing because of who my parents were and the year I was born
Label for comment 77: RTB was a Labour policy
Label for comment 78: Says reality bites
Label for comment 79: Is critical of the article that "regurgitates ONS statistics without critical enquiry" also pokes fun at advertising
Label for comment 80: Says the article ust reports the facts rather than an in-depth investigation or op-ed
Label for comment 81: Says the 70s had its problems too. Wasn't"all beer and skittles"
Label for comment 82: Joke
Label for comment 83: The 70s were "all beer and skittles"
Label for comment 84: We were more equal in the 70s. House in their local area cost little over 1.5 times average salary for a skilled worker. With backing in the press, think-tanks and the PR industry they managed to pull it off and convince us we were all richer by selling off assets and taking out credit rather than run an industrial policy
Label for comment 85: Knows a lot of economics
Label for comment 86: Joke
Label for comment 87: better to have been a teenager back in the 1970's than now. (was a teenager in the 70s)
Label for comment 88: Thinks the article is uninformative and misinforming, says article took no effort on behalf of the journalist. Says it's Daily Mail like.
Label for comment 89: Agrees. Says it contained a "big suggestive headline and no actual article"
Label for comment 90: Doesn't get all the disagreement, young vs old bickering. Says "we were born when we were born, some have done better than others and some will have a better or longer retirement than others."
Label for comment 91: Says "all the "anti-50s" comments are responses/replies to all the pathetic comments from your lot, saying - see, it ain't so peachy"
Label for comment 92: Main reason for "anti-50s and over ire" all over the net is to do with the fact that "so many of you sit smugly a-top a huge pile of property equity (and yes many could downsize to a nice house and still have masses left over)"
Label for comment 93: Houses are cheaper in the North (Doncaster, Bradford, Wigan, Blackpool) Even in Newham (east London) property too has generally gone up equivalent to wage inflation, whilst interest rates have dramatically decreased
Label for comment 94: Maybe in the SE of England, people have huge property equity, but not even everywhere there. e.g north of Watford or west of Salisbury
Label for comment 95: In the 70s there were jobs in those areas (Doncaster etc)
Label for comment 96: Jobs declined in the eighties when interest rates were 16%. "Wake up you twits"
Label for comment 97: Yes this person does sit a-top a huge pile of property equity because it irritates "self righteous whingers who blame everyone but themselves for their standard of living and believe houses were just being given away to anyone in the 70s/80s"
Label for comment 98: ??
Label for comment 99: Random
Label for comment 100: N/A
Label for comment 101: he thing about generally high house prices - they don't do the house owner much good unless you're a last time seller

GROUPS

GROUP: Label OLDER WORKERS (1970s/1980s) HAVE HOMES PAID OFF
Label for comment 1 [borris14]: older workers will have mortgage paid off to there is less incentive to earn off.; They won't feel worse off at all

GROUP: Label OLDERS WORKERS ARE STILL STRUGGLING WITH MORTGAGES/HOMES
Label for comment 2 [ridcully24]: Started work in the 70s and feel worse off. Has appropriate qualifications; and thinks they will never retire. Got mortgage in 2006, LinkedIn shows employers prefer younger people; for roles. Is earning less now that in 1990.
Label for comment 70 [thriftynot]: Says their house bought in 1979 for 11750 is now worth just 125000
Label for comment 81 [Katesdad0]: Says the 70s had its problems too. Wasn't"all beer and skittles"

GROUP: Label EVERYONE IS STRUGGLING
Label for comment 6 [Katesdad0]: Not all older workers own homes, a lot of us have the costs of adult kids; living at home or are using retirement savings to get own home. Many homeowners have seen their; wages eaten up my inflation. All young and old are in the same boat.
Label for comment 66 [Yeokel]: Says a young family with a mortgage in the '70s had just the same worries as; their equivalents today
Label for comment 90 [Yeokel]: Doesn't get all the disagreement, young vs old bickering. Says "we were born; when we were born, some have done better than others and some will have a better or longer retirement; than others."
Label for comment 101 [thebiker]: he thing about generally high house prices - they don't do the house owner; much good unless you're a last time seller

GROUP: Label REASONS FOR LIFE BEING DIFFERENT IN THE 70s/80s
Label for comment 4 [TRT1968]: People used to sleep less due to work
Label for comment 84 [theonionmurders]: We were more equal in the 70s. House in their local area cost little; over 1.5 times average salary for a skilled worker. With backing in the press, think-tanks and the PR industry; they managed to pull it off and convince us we were all richer by selling off assets and taking out credit; rather than run an industrial policy
Label for comment 95 [scrotgrot]: In the 70s there were jobs in those areas (Doncaster etc)

GROUP: Label THE WEALTHY PRIVILEGE
Label for comment 36 [C LS]: Joke about builder finishing the pool
Label for comment 37 [thriftynot]: People need to get out of your cosy world and look beyond; your parents that you envy so much.
Label for comment 91 [C LS]: Says "all the "anti-50s" comments are responses/replies to all the pathetic; comments from your lot, saying - see, it ain't so peachy"
Label for comment 92 [Elbowpatch]: Main reason for "anti-50s and over ire" all over the net is to do with the; fact that "so many of you sit smugly a-top a huge pile of property equity (and yes many could downsize to; a nice house and still have masses left over)"

GROUP: Label DISAGREEMENT OVER "THE POOR CHOOSING TO BE POOR" 
Label for comment 3 [nondescrpt] :Against the idea people 'choose' not to be richer in response to the; 'less incentive' comment
Label for comment 8 [baggins45]: Sarcastically says the poor choose to be poor
Label for comment 9 [CaptCrash]: If everyone chose to be rich, the economy would "grind to a half"
Label for comment 11 [VSLVSL]: First commenter did not "digest the article"
Label for comment 14 [borris14]: (first commenter) We don't have a choice with what family we're born into; but we do about our future. Anyone in this country can earn a decent standard or living so they're not poor
Label for comment 16 [C LS]: Thinks that is rubbish
Label for comment 23 [Mirabeaux]: Some adults make the right choices while some make the wrong; choices. Stop blaming external forces
Label for comment 25 [ameliaposte]: Life is not simple, not just about making wrong choices
Label for comment 26 [MaltnHops]: Argues people are in fact challenging the status quo
Label for comment 27 [Meerkat_5]: Disagrees with the "right and wrong choices" argument.; Grew up in a poor family and says some choices are forced on you.
Label for comment 28 [C LS]: Sarcastically jokes about blaming the less fortunate for their own problems
Label for comment 29 [JBowers]: if you're born into wealth then you'll more than likely end up wealthy.
Label for comment 31 [C LS]: Good luck affects most people in two ways. One group hide their good luck; to feel like the unlucky deserve that bad luck and can keep winnings guilt-free, second group don't; even know their lucky but think they are great. Tories are the first group
Label for comment 32 [nondescrpt]: Sarcastic joke over the "choices" remark
Label for comment 33 [olderiamthelessiknow]: Making choices is often about luck, good or bad, and less; to do with having a superior mindset
Label for comment 63 [Katesdad0]: Don't blame me for bad house prices

GROUP: Label HOUSES ARE MORE EXPENSIVE NOW
Label for comment 7 [borris14]: Stop polarising (same person in first comment), there is more to cost of ; iving than just wages. Housing costs are crucial. 'm simply saying that because their housing costs; will generally be lower than a younger person buying today
Label for comment 17 [thriftynot]: The big difference a decade of low interest rates and no chance of them; rising soon. Those buying houses in the north have a great deal thats why mortgages are less ; than rents. Interest rates were better in the 70s
Label for comment 18 [Turnbull2000]: The price of the house would be fraction it was now,  incomes; were often rising by double digits too, so the mortgage burden was greatly reduced after just 4-5 years.; Today, house prices are high, interest rates as low as they'll get, and salary growth is almost non-existent
Label for comment 19 [borris14]: Agrees with above comment
Label for comment 49 [steed82]: House is more expensive to buy now than it would have been in 70s
Label for comment 62 [alanredangel]: Says their house would have costed a tiny fraction in 1975 of what it; does now. People referred to in the article "do not have my sympathy."
Label for comment 67 [C LS]: Says the 3 bed apartment he/she grew up in he/she would now never be able; to afford until he/she is twice the age his/her parents were when they had a family

GROUP: Label RETIREMENT AGES; Anyone with pension savings can access them from age 55, not just the public sector.
Label for comment 52 [Croft12]: Not sure about the article seeing as though workers who started; in 1970 can retire at an age far lower than workers from 1995
Label for comment 53 [thriftynot]: Argues the retirement age gap is not very big at all; Anyone with pension savings can access them from age 55, not just the public sector.

SUBGROUP: Label PENSIONS AND ITS PROBLEMS; Label: pensions do not cover much
Label for comment 54 [shebunkin]: "Unfairly" sanctioned by the jobcentre over christmas 2012,; has worked for 41 years. Little house is fully paid off but will make no money on it. State pension; delayed 2 years
Label for comment 55 [MELSM]: People make their own pension contributions?
Label for comment 56 [thriftynot]: Compares state pensions to private pensions. Its time the taxpayer was let; off the hook, in terms of pensions.
Label for comment 58 [Brauchsel]: I could have started work in 1995: my state pension age is currently 68,; but with the likely increases in longevity I expect it to be 70 by the time I get there.

GROUP: Label THINGS ARE MUCH WORSE NOW THAN IN THE 70s/80s
Label for comment 64 [alanredangel]: says a young family with a mortgage today has more money worries; than someone nearing retirement with a reduced wage
Label for comment 87 [maximilienrobespiere]: better to have been a teenager back in the 1970's than now.; (was a teenager in the 70s)

SUBGROUP: Label PARTICULARLY WORSE FOR STUDENTS
Label for comment 44 [sonicboom82]: Article ignores the free education they were able to enjoy and the; "free money" in the form of hiked property value
Label for comment 46 [lazyn31]: Back then so many scientists and doctors got to go to university; for free and now people are leaving with 30k+ debt
Label for comment 47 [BeckyP]: University education was never free. Grants were mean tested.; Rejects the debt burden on current University students
Label for comment 48 [Billlogan]: Only grants were means tested and rather loosely at that, but there was; no tuition fee. Graduates now leave university with a large debt which will have to be paid for from their; earnings.
Label for comment 50 [jochenrindt]: Tuition costs should be paid by the tax payer , everybody should go; to university ,except if your just an ordinary worker, then you should just pay.
Label for comment 51 [CocoTheClown]: Tuition costs should be paid by the tax payer if the course studied is; of benefit to the taxpayer

SUBGROUP: Label DISAGREEING
Label for comment 42 [genericshrew]: Enquires about university fees
Label for comment 43 [thriftynot]: As only about 3-5% of people born in 70s (???) went to uni it isn't really; relevant as a group.

GROUP: Label WANT TO WORK MORE TO EARN MORE
Label for comment 5 [LouiseHR]: Given the choice they'd work more and earn more. Having mortgage; paid off means he/she can stay in their home though its a struggle. May have to sell

GROUP: Label JOKE
Label for comment 10 [thriftynot]: Sarcastically jokes about lifetime savings being stolen
Label for comment 20 [Slave2bank]: Nice to see two people agree
Label for comment 24 [TheThunkWorks]: Joke
Label for comment 40 [jfngw]: Joke; Label for comment 82 [Taxed2Death] :Joke
Label for comment 86 [Martin Lee Normington]: Joke

GROUP: Label JOB LOSTS THROUGH RETIREMENT OR REDUNDANCY; Label for comment12 [keepsmiling] :Some people didn't retire, as article says, some of us got made redundant
Label for comment 34 [jfngw]: Some consider retirement, others have retirement forced upon them.
Label for comment 35 [Katesdad0]: Sarcastic remark about older people being made redundant.; Was made redundant (twice in late 50s) had house paid for, no credit card bills and kids are financially; independent. Early pension covers enough.

GROUP: Label PEOPLE AND THEIR LIFESTYLES
Label for comment 57 [GreatBlah]: Women are screwed by marital breakdown, especially if they have children. ; Argues unless your daughter's student loans were from a bank you shouldn't have paid them off
Label for comment 65 [theWall50]: Only if they've actually paid their mortgage off and they aren't also taking; the role of 'the bank of Mum and Dad' as many of us are.
Label for comment 93 [thriftynot]: Houses are cheaper in the North (Doncaster, Bradford, Wigan, Blackpool); Even in Newham (east London) property too has generally gone up equivalent to wage inflation,; whilst interest rates have dramatically decreased
Label for comment 94 [Yeokel]: Maybe in the SE of England, people have huge property equity, but not even; everywhere there. e.g north of Watford or west of Salisbury

SUBGROUP: Label DOWNSIZING TO GET BY
Label for comment 13 [AlbertEinstein2]: Many retired are living off pension and downsizing to make ends meet.; Others are building debts on 0% credit cards
Label for comment 71 [alanredangel]: Says their mortgage was a lot lower relative to income, and they; consumed less.

SUBGROUP: Label PEOPLE NOW CHOOSE WHAT TO SPEND THEIR MONEY ON
Label for comment 15 [ThornburyBoy]: says this article suggests that whilst housing may be more expensive,; later generations have had greater earnings though many chose to spend on consumer goods instead of; housing
Label for comment 17 [thriftynot]: The big difference a decade of low interest rates and no chance of them; rising soon. Those buying houses in the north have a great deal thats why mortgages are less ; than rents. Interest rates were better in the 70s

GROUP: Label NOT GOOD JOURNALISM
Label for comment 79 [beyondthezero]: Is critical of the article that "regurgitates ONS statistics without critical; enquiry" also pokes fun at advertising
Label for comment 80 [JBowers]: Says the article just reports the facts rather than an in-depth investigation or; op-ed
Label for comment 88 [WhistlingNeil]: Thinks the article is uninformative and misinforming, says article took; no effort on behalf of the journalist. Says it's Daily Mail like.
Label for comment 89 [RedGiant23]: Agrees. Says it contained a "big suggestive headline and no actual; article"

GROUP: Label RANDOM
Label for comment 21 [TRT1968]: Cannot see how this works out
Label for comment 22 [AlbertEinstein2]: ??
Label for comment 30 [Ladinda]: ???
Label for comment 38 [MELSM]: Don't you understand irony?
Label for comment 45 [MaltnHops]: What are you saying?
Label for comment 59 [Billlogan]: Wishes good luck to the mother/father who worked for 41 years,; says she/he deserves a break.
Label for comment 60 [shebunkin]: My trajectory is pretty typical of the times in question
Label for comment 61 [shebunkin]: Attitudes to promotion of women were far different then than today
Label for comment 68 [Yeokel]: Thatcher brought in the the Right To Buy in the 80s, not the 70s
Label for comment 69 [C LS]: Sarcastically says people who started work in the 70s will of course not be; buying homes in the 80s (yes they will)
Label for comment 77 [GreatBlah]: RTB was a Labour policy
Label for comment 98 [NomadEngineer]: ??
Label for comment 99 [walkinginthesand]: Random
Label for comment 100 [walkinginthesand]: N/A
Label for comment 96 [thriftynot]: Jobs declined in the eighties when interest rates were 16%. "Wake up you; twits"

GROUP: Label BLAME YOURSELVES, OLDER WORKERS
Label for comment 72 [scrotgrot]: Says it's a bed of your own collective making, the having to support adult; children. While you whine about working at 60, my generation doesn't entertain the merest expectation of; retiring before 75.
Label for comment 76 [C LS]: 3 bed man says he has no sense of entitlement. He was brought up in an; environment that tells me I deserve nothing because of who my parents were and the year I was born

GROUP: Label IN DEFENCE OF THE OLDER WORKERS
Label for comment 73 [richardha28]: Says above whining shows the person doesn't deserve anything better; than retiring before 75 and dementia
Label for comment 74 [richardha28]: The reality is that proportionally speaking very few benefited from RTB; and most who did had paid rent on their council house for many years that was the equivalent of what a; mortgage payment would have been. Says person complaining about 3 bed house price now has an 'over; developed sense of entitlement'
Label for comment 75 [Bongo_in_wonderland]: Sarcastically says above sounds lovely
Label for comment 83 [Martin Lee Normington]: The 70s were "all beer and skittles"
Label for comment 85 [theonionmurders]: Knows a lot of economics
Label for comment 97 [richardha28]: Yes this person does sit a-top a huge pile of property equity because it; irritates "self righteous whingers who blame everyone but themselves for their standard of living and believe; houses were just being given away to anyone in the 70s/80s"

UNCONSTRAINED SUMMARY

The article evoked a lot of passion from commenters are there were a number of debates and divides.

The most prevalent was the disagreement over "the poor choosing to be poor." This was less centred around the difference between the 70s and 80s in terms of housing, but more about those who struggled versus those who haven't struggled for housing, regardless of the decade. There was still a big discussion in which commenters who bought homes in the 70s/80s saying they too have struggled, just as people looking for homes now. Many of them expressed discontent over pensions and the retirement age being unfairly increased. Others said they have paid off their mortgage, but will never make money on it or that the expenses of taking care of adult children has hit them financially. 

There was some anger toward those who are "sitting comfortably" property-wise, yet complaining about other problems.

Essentially, all commenters seemed to agree that houses are more expensive now than they were in the 70s/80s and that homes were generally more affordable back then. A few of them provided different reasons for this: more people renting now, high interest rates and decreasing incomes.

There was a big debate over choice and how people choose to spend their money/live their lives, a lot of commenters saying people have more free will and choice and everything is due to our own choices. People were concerned for students and the debts they now leave University with, stating the taxpayer should cover them. Some commenters tried to remind people that everybody is struggling, no matter what demographic they fall under.

A few commenters were unimpressed with the article itself stating there was not enough of a journalistic process to it. They were not happy with what they felt was the 'regurgitation' of statistics and seemed not to be fans of objective reporting of this matter.

CONSTRAINED SUMMARY

The article evoked a lot of passion from commenters and there were a number of debates/divides.

The most prevalent was the disagreement over "the poor choosing to be poor" and how people should blame their own choices. A lot of commenters were fiercely against this. The debate was less centred around the difference between the 70s and 80s in terms of housing, but more about those who struggled versus those who haven't struggled, regardless of the decade. There was a big discussion in which commenters who bought homes in the 70s/80s said they too have struggled, just like people now.

Many of them expressed discontent over pensions and the retirement age being unfairly increased. Others said they have paid off their mortgage, but will never make money on it or that  taking care of adult children has hit them financially. 

There was some anger toward those who are "sitting comfortably" property-wise, yet complaining about other problems.

All commenters seemed to agree that houses are harder to buy now. Some provided different reasons for this: high rent/interest rates and decreasing incomes.

People were concerned for University students and the debts they have, stating the taxpayer should cover them. Some commenters tried to remind people that everybody is struggling, no matter what demographic they fall under.

A few commenters were unimpressed with the article, stating it was not journalistic enough. They felt it was a 'regurgitation' of statistics and seemed not to be fans of objective reporting of this matter.

BACK LINKING

The article evoked a lot of passion from commenters and there were a number of debates/divides.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label OLDERS WORKERS ARE STILL STRUGGLING WITH MORTGAGES/HOMES
- GROUP: Label THE WEALTHY PRIVILEGE
- GROUP: Label DISAGREEMENT OVER "THE POOR CHOOSING TO BE POOR"
- SUBGROUP: Label PARTICULARLY WORSE FOR STUDENTS
- SUBGROUP: Label DISAGREEING
- GROUP: Label NOT GOOD JOURNALISM

The most prevalent was the disagreement over "the poor choosing to be poor" and how people should blame their own choices. 
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label DISAGREEMENT OVER "THE POOR CHOOSING TO BE POOR"
- GROUP: Label PEOPLE AND THEIR LIFESTYLES
- SUBGROUP: Label DOWNSIZING TO GET BY
- SUBGROUP: Label PEOPLE NOW CHOOSE WHAT TO SPEND THEIR MONEY ON

A lot of commenters were fiercely against this.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label EVERYONE IS STRUGGLING
- GROUP: Label REASONS FOR LIFE BEING DIFFERENT IN THE 70s/80s
- GROUP: Label THE WEALTHY PRIVILEGE
- GROUP: Label DISAGREEMENT OVER "THE POOR CHOOSING TO BE POOR"

The debate was less centred around the difference between the 70s and 80s in terms of housing, but more about those who struggled versus those who haven't struggled, regardless of the decade.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label OLDERS WORKERS ARE STILL STRUGGLING WITH MORTGAGES/HOMES
- GROUP: Label EVERYONE IS STRUGGLING
- GROUP: Label REASONS FOR LIFE BEING DIFFERENT IN THE 70s/80s
- GROUP: Label THE WEALTHY PRIVILEGE
- GROUP: Label DISAGREEMENT OVER "THE POOR CHOOSING TO BE POOR"
- SUBGROUP: Label PENSIONS AND ITS PROBLEMS
- GROUP: Label THINGS ARE MUCH WORSE NOW THAN IN THE 70s/80s
- SUBGROUP: Label PARTICULARLY WORSE FOR STUDENTS
- GROUP: Label JOB LOSTS THROUGH RETIREMENT OR REDUNDANCY
- GROUP: Label BLAME YOURSELVES, OLDER WORKERS
- GROUP: Label IN DEFENCE OF THE OLDER WORKERS

There was a big discussion in which commenters who bought homes in the 70s/80s said they too have struggled, just like people now.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label OLDERS WORKERS ARE STILL STRUGGLING WITH MORTGAGES/HOMES

Many of them expressed discontent over pensions and the retirement age being unfairly increased.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label RETIREMENT AGES
- SUBGROUP: Label PENSIONS AND ITS PROBLEMS
- GROUP: Label JOB LOSTS THROUGH RETIREMENT OR REDUNDANCY

There was some anger toward those who are "sitting comfortably" property-wise, yet complaining about other problems.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label THE WEALTHY PRIVILEGE
- GROUP: Label BLAME YOURSELVES, OLDER WORKERS

All commenters seemed to agree that houses are harder to buy now.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label HOUSES ARE MORE EXPENSIVE NOW

Some provided different reasons for this: high rent/interest rates and decreasing incomes.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label EVERYONE IS STRUGGLING
- GROUP: Label REASONS FOR LIFE BEING DIFFERENT IN THE 70s/80s
- GROUP: Label HOUSES ARE MORE EXPENSIVE NOW

People were concerned for University students and the debts they have, stating the taxpayer should cover them.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- SUBGROUP: Label PARTICULARLY WORSE FOR STUDENTS

Some commenters tried to remind people that everybody is struggling, no matter what demographic they fall under.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label OLDERS WORKERS ARE STILL STRUGGLING WITH MORTGAGES/HOMES
- GROUP: Label EVERYONE IS STRUGGLING

A few commenters were unimpressed with the article, stating it was not journalistic enough.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label NOT GOOD JOURNALISM

They felt it was a 'regurgitation' of statistics and seemed not to be fans of objective reporting of this matter.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label NOT GOOD JOURNALISM

Others said they have paid off their mortgage, but will never make money on it or that  taking care of adult children has hit them financially.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Label EVERYONE IS STRUGGLING
- GROUP: Label WANT TO WORK MORE TO EARN MORE
- GROUP: Label PEOPLE AND THEIR LIFESTYLES
