LABELS

Label for comment 1: Against NHS tax - The rich, businesses and bankers should pay more in tax - not those on low incomes.
Label for comment 2: Rich -  rich is subjective - How can you define it?? If someone earns 50K but rents in London and has children they won't feel rich.
Label for comment 3: Rich - if you can't afford to live there (in London) then move? Tory perspective.
Label for comment 4: For NHS Tax - Super-rich (top 1-10%) are getting richer while everyone else is getting poorer. Gov should focus on tackling tax evasion and avoidance. Rich can afford to avoid taxes.
Label for comment 5: Businesses - should pay triple NI tax - people should pay lower income tax
Label for comment 6: Rich - can't define
Label for comment 7: Rich - can't define
Label for comment 8: London - too expensive.
Label for comment 9: Businesses - avoid tax
Label for comment 10: Mansion tax needed
Label for comment 11: Rich - Those earning double the average wage (50K) are definitely rich - London travel costs not a factor
Label for comment 12: Benefits - people on low incomes (below living wage) rely on benefits to survive, but benefits are being cut. But if you ask for the living wage employers cut jobs.
Label for comment 13: Businesses - if they pay more tax they will slash jobs
Label for comment 14: Businesses - Amazon avoid all tax and VAT sent to Luxembourg. Contractor jobs = low taxes
Label for comment 15: Contractor contracts - no tax is paid and saves jobs.
Label for comment 16: Anti - Tory - Wage gap between rich and poor - criticises slogan: 'We're all in this together'
Label for comment 17: Rich - should pay more tax. Low paid workers constantly fear losing home/ assets etc.
Label for comment 18: Financial tranactions tax is needed - not an NHS tax
Label for comment 19: Civil service - low paid, living in London and struggling to survive - can't move from (London) jobs
Label for comment 20: Against businesses tax hike - Employers would be put off investing in UK, and would move business abroad to lower tax countries.
Label for comment 21: London too expensive - Teachers, nurses etc. cannot afford to live in the communities they serve.
Label for comment 22: Land Value Tax - should replace council tax
Label for comment 23: Tax Evasion - Get rid of loopholes which allow Amazaon and other businesses to avoid tax
Label for comment 24: Pro NHS tax and rich taxed properly - A penny on NI = decent NHS, libraries, fire service, ambulance, SureStar etc.
Label for comment 25: Anti - LibDem/ Coalition - Tories privatising the NHS - coalition damaged LibDems - hated now
Label for comment 26: Anti-Tax Hike - damages growth of economy and tax revenue falls - make us all poorer
Label for comment 27: Partisan reporting - Guardian supporting LibDems in hope of Lab/Lib coalition
Label for comment 28: Growth is not a good thing.
Label for comment 29: Against Health Tourism + businesses should pay more tax - Re-organise NHS - stop unnecessary operations like face lifts  boob jobs, reduce no. of managers and change way NHS purchases items (to control costs)
Label for comment 30: Pro Tax the Rich - only tax the rich who are getting richer, the poor have suffered enough from austerity.
Label for comment 31: Businesses - Pay workers living wage to boost economy - businesses exploit workers and are profit obsessed
Label for comment 32: Pro Tax Cuts - dismisses claim of higher taxes damaging economy
Label for comment 33: NHS wastes too much money - too many managers, needs to be more efficient.
Label for comment 34: Raising NI - how much would a penny on NI raise?
Label for comment 35: Anti-tax hike - people already pay too much tax
Label for comment 36: Pro Tax Hike - dissmisses claim that raising taxes damages economy and tax revenue
Label for comment 37: Pro Tax Hike - save NHS. But the rich have too much influence over politics - corruption + greed of business.
Label for comment 39: Rich avoid paying NI and Taxes
Label for comment 40: Pro Tax Hike - in USA rich were taxed and econcomy saw greatest growth
Label for comment 41: Anti tax Hike - 1p on NI is not enough to sustain NHS. NHS is too expensive and wastes money
Label for comment 42: Pro Tax Hike for rich - boosts tax revenue
Label for comment 43: Anti-Tory - raise taxes for poor and sell (privatise) it to their rich business friends
Label for comment 44: Rich do pay NI
Label for comment 45: Laffer Curve
Label for comment 48: Pro Tax Hike - Health and education needs more funding to boost quality of service and not ran for profit (95% tax back in the day). Cost of NHS need to be more transparent and politicians should make the public aware of how expensive it is.
Label for comment 49: Agrees with tax hike (above point)
Label for comment 50: Anti-tax hike - People won't want to earn more money if most goes to GOV in tax. Thatcher reduced to 40% and tax revenues increased.
Label for comment 51: Poor worse off - VAT and council tax hikes hit the poor workers + Income tax cuts have benefitted the rich + Tax avoidance puts burden on low-paid workers.
Label for comment 52: 95% tax - rich moved abroad - nobody left to tax
Label for comment 53: Anti-rich/ Thatcher - pound shops, food banks, wonga etc Thatcher's fault. Rich contribute nothing.
Label for comment 54: Poor worse off - VAT hs increased while income tax has fallen - benefits the rich/poor suffer. Highest emgration of UK was during Thatcher years. Tax avoidance higher now with lower taxes. Use USA policy where expats still pay tax back to native country.
Label for comment 55: Tax revenue has fallen since income tax has been cut
Label for comment 56: Rich avoid tax at whatever level it is.
Label for comment 57: Rich are needed in the UK to pay taxes
Label for comment 58: Rich - top 1% pay 28% of all income tax and VAT. Politians would never commit to such a tax hike - lose votes and they all favour the rich anyway
Label for comment 59: Tax avoidance not an issue - exaggerated  by media and politicans. Businesses paranoid of being 'named and shamed'. Tax avoidance fees would not fund NHS.
Label for comment 60: Anti-tax - pushes away top talent and minds to different countries.
Label for comment 61: Pro-tax hike - 95% tax rate needed to restore equality.
Label for comment 63: Tories and Libdems will lose seats - LIBs wont get enough seats to have a coalition with Labour
Label for comment 64: Outright majority unlikely - Labour have appalling track record and cannot govern alone. FPTP corrupt
Label for comment 65: Tories and Libdems will lose seats - coaliton lied to elecorate
Label for comment 66: Lib Dems unpopular  - failed to curb Tory excessses, will get no seats and hold no power to form coalition with ED.
Label for comment 67: Broken promises - if a gov proposes something not in manifesto there should be a referendum.
Label for comment 68: FPTP is not corrupt, it's just not as good as PR.
Label for comment 69: Anti-Tory - cruel and incompetent
Label for comment 71: Pro NI hike - NI is an NHS tax - raise it.
Label for comment 72: Lib-Dem broken promises - do anything to stay in power - sell-outs
Label for comment 73: Anti-Tory - cut NI to bankrupt NHS
Label for comment 74: Tackle tax avoidance - Amazon, Google, Microsoft etc. should pay their fair share first before tax hike.
Label for comment 75: NI is for benefits and pensions - not NHS
Label for comment 76: NI is for benefits/pensions not NHS - Only 20% of NHS budget comes from NI.  - if NI increased some may lose jobs.
Label for comment 77: NI pays for some of the NHS
Label for comment 78: Lib Dem broken promises - They voted for bedroom tx and now are against it - election looming
Label for comment 79: NI produced 104bn in NI receipts
Label for comment 80: Some NI does pay for the NHS.
Label for comment 81: NI pays for contribution based benefits, and not income based benefits. - can only be spent on certain areas by gov.
Label for comment 82: Anti-Labour - As bad as LidDems - they both voted in favour of the bedroom tax - and then went against it when Scottish Gov didn't implement it.
Label for comment 83: Pro NI Hike - fair to make rich pay more for NHS
Label for comment 84: Anti-LibDem - broken promises - suck up to coaliton partner and do anything for power
Label for comment 87: Anti-LibDem - intelligent people won't fall for Lib spin
Label for comment 88: Anti-LibDem - failed to curb Tories, follow orders, will lose seats and sell soul for power
Label for comment 89: Anti-Libdem - can't be trusted
Label for comment 90: Lib/lab coaltion would damage Labour
Label for comment 91: Coalition is likely - hung parliament
Label for comment 92: POlls - Labour majority
Label for comment 93: Anti-Labour - bad track record with economy, rich/poor divide and NHS asset stripping. - Vote for someone different
Label for comment 94: Raise income tax - Political parties scared of raising taxes - we have taxes that fund NHS - rich should pay more.
Label for comment 95: Wasted money - fraction of funds spent on privatisation and PFI scams
Label for comment 96: Wasted money - NHS IT system. Polticians enriching themselves and rich friends.
Label for comment 97: Wasted money - foreign companies benefit from IT failure
Label for comment 99: Taxes should be more transparent - people need to be aware what their txes pay for. People wouldn't mind a tax icnreae if it was paying for something like the NHS or their pension. But people oppose paying for benefits. Get out what you put in.

GROUPS

GROUP: The rich and businesses should pay more tax (to fund NHS) not ordinary people (return of 95% income tax)
Label for comment 1 [MutantNinjaThinktank]: Against NHS tax - The rich, businesses and bankers should pay more in tax - not those on low incomes.
Label for comment 5 [Dan Fox]: Businesses - should pay triple NI tax - people should pay lower income tax
Label for comment 4 [chejer]: For NHS Tax - Super-rich (top 1-10%) are getting richer while everyone else is getting poorer. Gov should focus on tackling tax evasion and avoidance. Rich can afford to avoid taxes.
Label for comment 17 [dazedandconfused2]: Rich - should pay more tax. Low paid workers constantly fear losing home/ assets etc.
Label for comment 24 [lokistail]: Pro NHS tax and rich taxed properly - A penny on NI = decent NHS, libraries, fire service, ambulance, SureStar etc.
Label for comment 30 [chejer]: Pro Tax the Rich - only tax the rich who are getting richer, the poor have suffered enough from austerity.
Label for comment 36 [DJT1Million]: Pro Tax Hike - dissmisses claim that raising taxes damages economy and tax revenue
Label for comment 37 [illeist]: Pro Tax Hike - save NHS. But the rich have too much influence over politics - corruption + greed of business.
Label for comment 42 [Arethosemyfeet]: Pro Tax Hike for rich - boosts tax revenue
Label for comment 48 [ID7475021]: Pro Tax Hike - Health and education needs more funding to boost quality of service and not ran for profit (95% tax back in the day). Cost of NHS need to be more transparent and politicians should make the public aware of how expensive it is.
Label for comment 49 [Jonathan64]: Agrees with tax hike (above point)
Label for comment 57 [KatieL]: Rich are needed in the UK to pay taxes
Label for comment 61 [tonyp1]: Pro-tax hike - 95% tax rate needed to restore equality.
Label for comment 94 [AndrewStaden]: Raise income tax - Political parties scared of raising taxes - we have taxes that fund NHS - rich should pay more.
Label for comment 10 [stripedone]: Mansion tax needed
Label for comment 40 [nondescrpt]: Pro Tax Hike - in USA rich were taxed and econcomy saw greatest growth
Label for comment 83 [colbristol]: Pro NI Hike - fair to make rich pay more for NHS
Label for comment 71 [SirMarky]: Pro NI hike - NI is an NHS tax - raise it.
Label for comment 32 [Arethosemyfeet]: Pro Tax hike - dismisses claim of higher taxes damaging economy

SUBGROUP: How do you define rich? It's subjective 
Label for comment 2 [Chrispytl]: Rich -  rich is subjective - How can you define it?? If someone earns 50K but rents in London and has children they won't feel rich.
Label for comment 3 [Sickbag]: Rich - if you can't afford to live there (in London) then move? Tory perspective.
Label for comment 6 [RubberDucky]: Rich - can't define
Label for comment 7 [notKnowing]: Rich - can't define
Label for comment 11 [uglyfruit]: Rich - Those earning double the average wage (50K) are definitely rich - London travel costs not a factor
Label for comment 8 [Sickbag]: London - too expensive.

GROUP: The government needs to tackle tax avoidance/evasion. Anti-business
Label for comment 4 [chejer]: For NHS Tax - Super-rich (top 1-10%) are getting richer while everyone else is getting poorer. Gov should focus on tackling tax evasion and avoidance. Rich can afford to avoid taxes.
Label for comment 9 [SaulZaentz]: Businesses - avoid tax
Label for comment 14 [brian mcgovern]: Businesses - Amazon avoid all tax and VAT sent to Luxembourg. Contractor jobs = low taxes
Label for comment 23 [Oscarcat08]: Tax Evasion - Get rid of loopholes which allow Amazaon and other businesses to avoid tax
Label for comment 29 [aheadspeath]: Against Health Tourism + businesses should pay more tax - Re-organise NHS - stop unnecessary operations like face lifts  boob jobs, reduce no. of managers and change way NHS purchases items (to control costs)
Label for comment 39 [Reduced]: Rich avoid paying NI and Taxes
Label for comment 74 [RubberDucky]: Tackle tax avoidance - Amazon, Google, Microsoft etc. should pay their fair share first before tax hike.
Label for comment 56 [nondescrpt]: Rich avoid tax at whatever level it is.
Label for comment 31 [wheelbarrow1]: Businesses - Pay workers living wage to boost economy - businesses exploit workers and are profit obsessed

SUBGROUP: Tax avoidance exaggerated
Label for comment 59 [Wiltie]: Tax avoidance not an issue - exaggerated  by media and politicans. Businesses paranoid of being 'named and shamed'. Tax avoidance fees would not fund NHS.
Label for comment 44 [GreatBlah]: Rich do pay NI

GROUP: Anti-tax hike - damage economy and business. Top talent moves abroad + generates less tax revenue
Label for comment 13 [nancynoonoo]: Businesses - if they pay more tax they will slash jobs
Label for comment 20 [Fomalhaut88]: Against businesses tax hike - Employers would be put off investing in UK, and would move business abroad to lower tax countries.
Label for comment 26 [laser24]: Anti-Tax Hike - damages growth of economy and tax revenue falls - make us all poorer
Label for comment 34 [Julian Hancock]: Raising NI - how much would a penny on NI raise?
Label for comment 35 [laser24]: Anti-tax hike - people already pay too much tax
Label for comment 41 [Wiltie]: Anti tax Hike - 1p on NI is not enough to sustain NHS. NHS is too expensive and wastes money
Label for comment 50 [jonbryce]: Anti-tax hike - People won't want to earn more money if most goes to GOV in tax. Thatcher reduced to 40% and tax revenues increased.
Label for comment 52 [Gnoway]: 95% tax - rich moved abroad - nobody left to tax
Label for comment 60 [canyoudoso]: Anti-tax - pushes away top talent and minds to different countries.
Label for comment 58 [Wiltie]: Rich - top 1% pay 28% of all income tax and VAT. Politians would never commit to such a tax hike - lose votes and they all favour the rich anyway

GROUP: The poor are worse-off under coalition. VAT has increased and income tax decreased
Label for comment 12 [themuse]: Benefits - people on low incomes (below living wage) rely on benefits to survive, but benefits are being cut. But if you ask for the living wage employers cut jobs.
Label for comment 16 [adenjack]: Anti - Tory - Wage gap between rich and poor - criticises slogan: 'We're all in this together'
Label for comment 25 [Sickbag]: Anti - LibDem/ Coalition - Tories privatising the NHS - coalition damaged LibDems - hated now
Label for comment 43 [steviet69]: Anti-Tory - raise taxes for poor and sell (privatise) it to their rich business friends
Label for comment 51 [DJT1Million]: Poor worse off - VAT and council tax hikes hit the poor workers + Income tax cuts have benefitted the rich + Tax avoidance puts burden on low-paid workers.
Label for comment 53 [scubadoc]: Anti-rich/ Thatcher - pound shops, food banks, wonga etc Thatcher's fault. Rich contribute nothing.
Label for comment 54 [Reduced]: Poor worse off - VAT hs increased while income tax has fallen - benefits the rich/poor suffer. Highest emgration of UK was during Thatcher years. Tax avoidance higher now with lower taxes. Use USA policy where expats still pay tax back to native country.
Label for comment 55 [nondescrpt]: Tax revenue has fallen since income tax has been cut
Label for comment 73 [DomesticExtremist]: Anti-Tory - cut NI to bankrupt NHS
Label for comment 69 [nondescrpt]: Anti-Tory - cruel and incompetent

SUBGROUP: Outright majority at next General Election unlikely
Label for comment 64 [RobCNW6]: Outright majority unlikely - Labour have appalling track record and cannot govern alone. FPTP corrupt
Label for comment 65 [oohyabuggerata]: Tories and Libdems will lose seats - coaliton lied to elecorate
Label for comment 91 [Knowles2]: Coalition is likely - hung parliament
Label for comment 92 [Sickbag]: POlls - Labour majority

GROUP: Anti-LibDem - broken promises, can't be trusted, failed to curb Tory austerity, sell-outs, do anything to be in power. 
Label for comment 27 [EgilSkallagrimson]: Partisan reporting - Guardian supporting LibDems in hope of Lab/Lib coalition
Label for comment 72 [Sickbag]: Lib-Dem broken promises - do anything to stay in power - sell-outs
Label for comment 63 [BettyWindsor]: Tories and Libdems will lose seats - LIBs wont get enough seats to have a coalition with Labour
Label for comment 66 [movedtorant]: Lib Dems unpopular  - failed to curb Tory excessses, will get no seats and hold no power to form coalition with ED.
Label for comment 67 [veteran699]: Broken promises - if a gov proposes something not in manifesto there should be a referendum.
Label for comment 78 [oohyabuggerata]: Lib Dem broken promises - They voted for bedroom tx and now are against it - election looming
Label for comment 82 [bitthick]: Anti-Labour - As bad as LidDems - they both voted in favour of the bedroom tax - and then went against it when Scottish Gov didn't implement it.
Label for comment 84 [davidabsalom]: Anti-LibDem - broken promises - suck up to coaliton partner and do anything for power
Label for comment 87 [oohyabuggerata]: Anti-LibDem - intelligent people won't fall for Lib spin
Label for comment 88 [outofit]: Anti-LibDem - failed to curb Tories, follow orders, will lose seats and sell soul for power
Label for comment 89 [Dubdemon]: Anti-Libdem - can't be trusted
Label for comment 93 [tonyp1]: Anti-Labour - bad track record with economy, rich/poor divide and NHS asset stripping. - Vote for someone different
Label for comment 90 [SybilSanderson]: Lib/lab coaltion would damage Labour

GROUP: The NHS wastes money/ is too expensive/ needs reform
Label for comment 29 [aheadspeath]: Against Health Tourism + businesses should pay more tax - Re-organise NHS - stop unnecessary operations like face lifts  boob jobs, reduce no. of managers and change way NHS purchases items (to control costs)
Label for comment 33 [aheadspeath]: NHS wastes too much money - too many managers, needs to be more efficient.

GROUP: National Insurance is/is not an NHS tax. No need for new tax
Label for comment 75 [jonbryce]: NI is for benefits and pensions - not NHS
Label for comment 76 [whitehorseview]: NI is for benefits/pensions not NHS - Only 20% of NHS budget comes from NI.  - if NI increased some may lose jobs.
Label for comment 77 [DJT1Million]: NI pays for some of the NHS
Label for comment 79 [jonbryce]: NI produced 104bn in NI receipts
Label for comment 80 [Reduced]: Some NI does pay for the NHS.
Label for comment 81 [Reduced]: NI pays for contribution based benefits, and not income based benefits. - can only be spent on certain areas by gov.

GROUP: Taxes should be more transparent. The Government wastes money
Label for comment 95 [Longwoodsy]: Wasted money - fraction of funds spent on privatisation and PFI scams
Label for comment 96 [MIAsin]: Wasted money - NHS IT system. Polticians enriching themselves and rich friends.
Label for comment 97 [ID1174659]: Wasted money - foreign companies benefit from IT failure
Label for comment 99 [WalterBMorgan]: Taxes should be more transparent - people need to be aware what their txes pay for. People wouldn't mind a tax icnreae if it was paying for something like the NHS or their pension. But people oppose paying for benefits. Get out what you put in.; GrOUP: miscellaneous
Label for comment 18 [logos00]: Financial tranactions tax is needed - not an NHS tax
Label for comment 19 [camera2obscura]: Civil service - low paid, living in London and struggling to survive - can't move from (London) jobs
Label for comment 21 [supermarine]: London too expensive - Teachers, nurses etc. cannot afford to live in the communities they serve.
Label for comment 22 [GreatBlah]: Land Value Tax - should replace council tax
Label for comment 68 [Reduced]: FPTP is not corrupt, it's just not as good as PR.
Label for comment 28 [Martin Westall]: Growth is not a good thing.
Label for comment 45 [jonfanning]: Laffer Curve

UNCONSTRAINED SUMMARY

The majority of people agreed that businesses and the rich should pay more tax to fund the NHS, rather than those on low incomes. Some said income tax should be raised for the highest earners and others suggested a 'mansion tax'. Some commenters suggested that the top one percent of earners should pay up to 95% in income tax. Although, there was a debate as to how 'rich' can be defined, as some saw this as subjective. 

Other commenters pointed out that raising taxes would damage the economy and drive the most talented minds and business to different countries with lower taxes.
 
A large proportion of commenters said the government should do more to tackle tax evasion and avoidance by big businesses and the rich. But some said the extent of tax evasion was exaggerated by the press.

A strong number of people criticised the coalition for cutting taxes for the rich and putting the burden on to lower-paid workers. They said that income tax had been cut for the very rich, benefits have been slashed and VAT has been increased, making life for low-paid workers more difficult.

Many criticised the Liberal Democrats for going into a coalition with the Conservatives and failing to keep promises. Many said they had failed to curb Tory excesses and had abandoned their core principles and pledges. 

Some people said a new NHS tax is not needed as national insurance already contributes to it.  

A few commenters said taxes need to be more transparent. They thought people would not mind paying higher taxes if it funded the NHS, but people would mind paying more to fund benefits.

A small minority said that the NHS is too expensive and needs reform. They argued for a reduction of 'unnecessary' operations, like boob jobs and face lifts.

CONSTRAINED SUMMARY

The majority of people agreed that businesses and the rich should pay more tax to fund the NHS, rather than those on low incomes. Some said income tax should be raised for the highest earners and others suggested a 'mansion tax'. Some commenters suggested that the top one percent of earners should pay up to 95% in income tax. Although, there was a debate as to how 'rich' can be defined fairly.

Other commenters pointed out that raising taxes would damage the economy and drive the most talented minds and business to different countries with lower taxes.
 
A large proportion of commenters said the government should do more to tackle tax evasion and avoidance by big businesses and the rich. But some said the extent of tax evasion was exaggerated by the press.

A strong number of people criticised the coalition for cutting taxes for the rich and placing the burden on lower-paid workers. They said that income tax has been cut for the very rich, while benefits have been slashed and VAT has increased, making life for low-paid workers more difficult.

Many criticised the Liberal Democrats for going into a coalition with the Conservatives and failing to keep promises. Many said they had failed to curb Tory excesses and had abandoned their core principles and pledges. 

A small minority said that the NHS is too expensive and needs reform. 

Some said a new tax is not needed as national inurance already funds the NHS.

BACK LINKING

The majority of people agreed that businesses and the rich should pay more tax to fund the NHS, rather than those on low incomes.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: The rich and businesses should pay more tax (to fund NHS) not ordinary people (return of 95% income tax)

Some said income tax should be raised for the highest earners and others suggested a 'mansion tax'.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: The rich and businesses should pay more tax (to fund NHS) not ordinary people (return of 95% income tax)

Some commenters suggested that the top one percent of earners should pay up to 95% in income tax.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: The rich and businesses should pay more tax (to fund NHS) not ordinary people (return of 95% income tax)

Although, there was a debate as to how 'rich' can be defined fairly.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- SUBGROUP: How do you define rich? It's subjective

Other commenters pointed out that raising taxes would damage the economy and drive the most talented minds and business to different countries with lower taxes.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Anti-tax hike - damage economy and business. Top talent moves abroad + generates less tax revenue

A large proportion of commenters said the government should do more to tackle tax evasion and avoidance by big businesses and the rich.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: The government needs to tackle tax avoidance/evasion. Anti-business

But some said the extent of tax evasion was exaggerated by the press.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- SUBGROUP: Tax avoidance exaggerated

A strong number of people criticised the coalition for cutting taxes for the rich and placing the burden on lower-paid workers.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: The poor are worse-off under coalition. VAT has increased and income tax decreased

They said that income tax has been cut for the very rich, while benefits have been slashed and VAT has increased, making life for low-paid workers more difficult.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: The poor are worse-off under coalition. VAT has increased and income tax decreased

Many criticised the Liberal Democrats for going into a coalition with the Conservatives and failing to keep promises.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Anti-LibDem - broken promises, can't be trusted, failed to curb Tory austerity, sell-outs, do anything to be in power.

Many said they had failed to curb Tory excesses and had abandoned their core principles and pledges.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: Anti-LibDem - broken promises, can't be trusted, failed to curb Tory austerity, sell-outs, do anything to be in power.

A small minority said that the NHS is too expensive and needs reform.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: The NHS wastes money/ is too expensive/ needs reform

Some said a new tax is not needed as national inurance already funds the NHS.
(Sub)GroupNames:
- GROUP: National Insurance is/is not an NHS tax. No need for new tax
