UK heatwave alert: how do you keep cool when temperatures soar?
Met Office forecasters have issued a heatwave alert for this weekend. Do you live in a country that regularly experiences soaring temperatures? Share your advice for keeping cool

South-east England could reach temperatures in the low 30s Celsius (mid-80s Farenheit) by Friday, while other parts of the country and Wales are likely to see temperatures in the mid to high 20s. Met Office forecasters have issued a heatwave alert for this weekend, as temperatures soar to their highest of the year.

What advice do you have for coping with these weather conditions?

During the summer heatwave in northern France in August 2003, three weeks of unprecedented high temperatures caused 15,000 deaths, especially among older people.

In England that year, over 2,000 more people died during the 10-day August heatwave than during the same period of any of the previous five years.

This year the world experienced the hottest May globally since records began in 1880. The heat, combined with increasingly certain predictions of an El Niño weather event, means that experts are now speculating whether 2014 could become the hottest year on record.

Some ideas for keeping cool:

Stay out of the sun between 11-3pm, when temperatures are at their hottest.
Drink cold drinks regularly and avoid tea, coffee and alcohol. 
Pull down the shades on your windows when it's very hot.
If you have a fan place it nearer the window so it can pull colder air into the room.
If you need to cool down quickly, wear damp clothes. The heat from your body will cause the water in your clothes to evaporate, cooling you down. This may be frowned upon on your morning commute.
Counter to popular belief, the colour of your clothes proves of little benefit when keeping you cool. Loose-fitting clothes, however, are key.
Fan your face.
Do you live in a country that regularly experiences heatwaves? What tips do you have for keeping cool? Share your advice in the thread below and we'll make a list of the best advice on the site

When temperatures hit the low 30s in 2009, Guardian readers gave this advice: 

FoxandDuck
30 June 2009 1:45am
We're having a mild summer but normally New Jersey is hot and sticky. The first thing an AC does is de-humidify before it cools anything. My cheap solution is to live in the basement with both a dehumidifier (which does not vent outside) and a small window air conditioner.

Some advice from Portugal:

caxixi
16 July 2014 4:14pm
It is 4pm and I am in Portugal, 35 degrees outside, writing this in a house with all the shutters down. It is lovely and cool. At night I use a (ceiling) fan if necessary. I have lunch early and then a siesta from about 1pm to 3pm. After that, I continue working (computer) until about 8pm. In my experience, we English go wrong in that we OPEN rather than shut the windows/curtains. English friends came here last weekend and the first they asked was "do we have to sit in the dark in the middle of the day?". Answer, yes!
