Prince Charles shocked by 'tragedy' of flood failures on Somerset visit
'There's nothing like a jolly good disaster to get people to start doing something,' says Prince of Wales

The Prince of Wales has been drawn into the deepening controversy over the response of the government and the Environment Agency to the ongoing flooding crisis when he said it was a "tragedy" that "nothing happened for so long".

Prince Charles was caught making the remarks during a tour of the flood-stricken Somerset Levels, where many people are angry at what they see as a slow reaction to their problems and remain frustrated that the prime minister and the chairman of the Environment Agency, Lord Smith, have yet to visit.

Those who spoke to him said he had not been expressing opinions about what many say needs to be done – such as dredging the rivers – but rather listening to what people wanted to tell him.

During the visit, it was announced that the Prince's Countryside Fund, which Charles founded, would donate £50,000 from its emergency fund to help farmers and rural communities in Somerset. The Duke of Westminster is also donating £50,000.

But during a reception at a village hall an ITV television camera crew picked him up saying: "There's nothing like a jolly good disaster to get people to start doing something". The tragedy is that nothing happened for so long."

Asked about the Prince's remarks, David Cameron's official spokesman said: "The Prime Minister has repeatedly said that the situation that a number of communities in the Somerset area find themselves in is unacceptable.

"That's why the government is working so closely with the Environment Agency, the local authority and other agencies to do as much as we can to help those communities. I think the local communities will very much have welcomed the Prince of Wales's visit to their area."

Among those there to see the prince arrive at the village hall of Stoke St Gregory was Alfred Van Pelt, who lives in the village and is a member of the Flooding on the Levels Action Group (Flag).

"I'm pleased that he's here but I do think David Cameron and Lord Smith ought to have come to see for themselves what is going on here," said Pelt.

Pelt said Flag supported dredging the rivers on the levels to help get floodwater clear of the moors more quickly. However, it is promoting a range of other measures including giving more control to local people, who know the area best. Pelt also said that Flag supported local people paying a local tax or levy for improvements.

Originally from the Netherlands, Pelt said: "What I have learnt from Holland is that you shouldn't have to worry about water.

Tim Slattery, from the hamlet of Curlode, shook hands with the prince and told him he ought to update his book A Vision of Britain to take into account the impact of global warming. Slattery said the prince had taken the comment in the constructive spirit in which it was meant.

Slattery said the Environment Agency had built defences that had protected his home from flooding recently. "But that means the water that would have come our way has gone somewhere else," he said.

Maureen Pittard, landlady of the Rose and Crown Inn (known locally as Eli's, after her grandfather), said that while she had not been flooded, her business had been affected.

"My pub is close to Muchelney and so we haven't had much passing trade from there," she said. "Some have made it to the pub in boats but it has been quiet."

Her friend Val Parry was glowing after the prince praised her hat. "I've always liked him," she said. "He's my favourite royal. I think he's compassionate: he takes an interest in people, the environment and the countryside."

Ironically, the visit had been arranged before the wettest January on record took its toll. The prince had been booked in to find out how the area had recovered since the floods of 2012, which were hailed at the time as a "once-in-100-years" event.

More than 128,000 acres have been flooded and approximately 200 houses cut off. Around 20 homes remain under water. In total, around 350 people are affected.