Heatwave alert as temperatures soar to high of the year in England and Wales
But Met Office forecasters warn humidity could cause sleepless nights while thunderstorms are moving in from Spain

Health experts have urged people to stay out of the sun during the hottest part of the day after the Met Office issued a heatwave alert with temperatures set to soar to their highest of the year this weekend.

The south-east could reach the low 30s Celsius (mid-80s Fahrenheit) by Friday, while other parts of England and Wales are likely to see temperatures in the mid to high 20s.

Public Health England advised people to stay out of the sun at the hottest times, to drink plenty of fluids and wear sun cream that is at least factor 15. It also asked people to ensure that children and the elderly are not suffering because of the heat.

"While many people enjoy hot weather, high temperatures can be dangerous, especially for people who may be particularly vulnerable such as older people, young children and those with serious illnesses," said Dr Paul Cosford, director for health protection at PHE. "Everyone can enjoy the sun safely by keeping out of the heat at the hottest time of the day, avoiding sunburn and staying hydrated with plenty of cool drinks. Older people and those with long-term illnesses are particularly vulnerable to the effects of very hot weather, so it's important to look out for them and keep indoor areas as cool as possible."

The yellow level 2 alert – triggered when there is a is 60% or above risk of threshold temperatures being reached in one or more regions on at least two consecutive days and the intervening night – has been issued for Friday to Sunday. The East Midlands, West Midlands, east England, the south-east and London are the regions most likely to experience heatwave conditions.

"There is a 60% probability of heatwave conditions between 8am on Friday and 8am on Sunday in parts of England," said the Met Office. "The highest temperatures are likely on Friday (good confidence) then a very humid night to follow. Heavy thunderstorms in eastern areas on Saturday will lead to slightly lower maximum temperatures, but it will still be very humid."

The possibility of thunderstorms comes from very warm and humid air moving up from the Spanish plains to the UK. If this meets cooler air from the Atlantic, the warm air can be forced rapidly upwards to produce thunderstorms. The Met Office describes the conditions as Spanish plume.

Excessive exposure to high temperatures can be dangerous. During the summer heatwave in northern France in August 2003, three weeks of unprecedented high temperatures caused 15,000 deaths, especially among older people.

In England that year, over 2,000 more people died during the 10-day August heatwave than during the same period of any of the previous five years.

The first heatwave plan for England was published in 2004 in response to the deaths of 2003. A heat health watch system now operates in England and Wales from 1 June to 15 September each year. The system has four levels based on threshold maximum daytime and minimum nighttime temperatures. These thresholds vary by region, but an average temperature is 30C (86F) by day and 15C (59F) overnight.

Since 2003, the UK has seen a significant heatwave in 2006, when there were an estimated 680 more deaths compared with similar periods in previous years, and in 2009, when there were approximately 300 excess summer deaths.

This year the world experienced the hottest May globally since records began in 1880. The record heat, combined with increasingly certain predictions of an El Niño, means experts are now speculating whether 2014 could become the hottest year on record.

Data published by the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration last month showed the average land and ocean surface temperature for May was 0.74C above the 20th-century average of 14.8C (58.6F), making it the highest on record.