Rubbish? Bury council votes to collect wheelie bins just once every three weeks
Cars cause accident. Locals fear the new move will lead to an increase in fly-tipping and attract foxes and vermin, but the council insists it will make the borough more environmentally friendly. Is it just a desperate cost cutting measure? Lyndsay Warner on a controversial decision

A council in Greater Manchester is to be the first in England to start collecting wheelie bins only once every three weeks, scrapping the current fortnightly collection.

The controversial decision was unanimously passed by councillors in Bury on Wednesday night, despite fears fly tipping would increase. One councillor who voted for the motion accused her opponents of “scaremongering” after they warned rubbish would pile up and attract vermin. Another argued the money saved could be spent on more social workers.

More than 3,300 people signed a petition opposing the new initiative, which will be introduced on 6 October.

It affects the grey bins used for general household waste which can't be recycled. The green and blue coloured bins for paper, glass and plastic will be collected more often than they are currently - every three weeks instead of monthly. The emptying of all communal bins serving flats will not change.

The Labour-run council claims the move is part of a strategy to turn Bury into a "zero waste borough", boost recycling and save money on landfill fees. But many residents feel it is simply a desperate cost saving measure, after the town hall was told to make more than £32m of cuts over the next two years.

Local Labour MP Ivan Lewis said difficult decisions had to be made because the coalition had imposed an effective 50% cut to the council's budget over five years. “The cuts being imposed by the Con/Dem Government on Bury Council are unprecedented and mean many front line services are at risk,” he said on his blog. Some MPs privately complain that they receive more complaints about bin collection than any other issue, despite all responsibility for waste management lying with local government rather than parliament.

Earlier this year Gwynedd council in Wales voted to start collecting rubbish every three weeks, following the lead of Falkirk in Scotland.

On Wednesday night members of the public spoke out against the decision during the meeting at Bury Town Hall.
